0	1	BACKGROUND: The adult versions EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L have been extensive compared. This is not the case for the EQ-5D youth versions. The study aim was to compare the measurement properties and responsiveness of EQ-5D-Y-3L and EQ-5D-Y-5L in paediatric patients. METHODS: A sample of patients 8-16 years old with different diseases and a wide range of disease severity was asked to complete EQ-5D-Y-3L, EQ-5D-Y-5L, PedsQL Generic Core Scale, and selected, appropriate disease-specific instruments, three times. EQ-5D-Y-3L and EQ-5D-Y-5L were compared in terms of: feasibility, (re-)distribution properties, discriminatory power, convergent validity, test-retest reliability, and responsiveness. RESULTS: 286 participating patients suffered from one of the following diseases: major beta-thalassemia, haemophilia, acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, acute illness. Missing responses were comparable between versions of the EQ-5D-Y, suggesting comparable feasibility. The number of patients in the best health state (level profile 11111) was equal in both EQ-5D-Y versions. The projection of EQ-5D-Y-3L scores onto EQ-5D-Y-5L for all dimensions showed that the two additional levels in EQ-5D-Y-5L slightly improved the accuracy of patients in reporting their problems, especially if severe. Convergent validity with PedsQL and disease-specific measures showed that the two EQ-5D-Y versions performed about equally. Test-retest reliability (EQ-5D-Y-3L 0.78 vs EQ-5D-Y-5L 0.84), and sensitivity for detecting health changes, were both better in EQ-5D-Y-5L. CONCLUSIONS: Extending the number of levels did not give clear superiority to EQ-5D-Y-5L over EQ-5D-Y-3L based on the criteria assessed in this study. However, increasing the number of levels benefitted EQ-5D-Y performance in the measurement of moderate to severe problems and especially in longitudinal study designs
1	0	PURPOSE: The EQ-5D-3L and 5L are widely used generic preference-based instruments, which are psychometrically sound with the general population, but little is known about the instruments' feasibility in the elderly. Therefore, this systematic review summarises the available literature with regard to the feasibility properties of the instruments in the elderly population. METHODS: We conducted a systematic search in PubMed, PsycInfo and EuroQol databases using pre-specified vocabulary and inclusion/exclusion criteria to identify publications until November 2020. Study characteristics and outcomes referring to the feasibility of the EQ-5D-3L and 5L in the elderly were extracted, if all study participants were at least 65+ years. RESULTS: We identified 17 studies reporting feasibility outcomes based on four criteria: missing values, completion rates, completion time and broad qualitative statements referring to the completion. Missing values per dimension ranged from 0 to 10.7%, although being mostly below 7%. The completion rate was around 90% or better, whereas the EQ VAS rating was missing from 2.3 to 25.3% of the respondents. Only two of the included studies examined the EQ-5D-5L; 15 studies reported on the EQ-5D-3L. CONCLUSION: Comparing our findings against the general population from published literature, we find that feasibility outcomes in older age groups are just below that of younger populations. Furthermore, older respondents have a higher propensity of requiring assistance or even an interviewer-based approach. Nonetheless, the reviewed literature indicates that the EQ-5D-3L still has good feasibility properties and, hence, is highly applicable in older respondents. However, further research is needed to explore feasibility properties of the EQ-5D-5L in this population
2	1	BACKGROUND: The role of artisanal and small-scale gold mining (ASGM) as a source of income is rapidly gaining importance in the economically difficult times in Zimbabwe. Besides limited epidemiological data, no data about the self-reported health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of artisanal and small-scale gold miners exist. The aim of the project was to access HRQoL of ASGM workers to improve the data base and compare the data to the urban Zimbabwean population. METHODS: Data from 83 artisanal and small-scale gold miners in Kadoma, Zimbabwe was analysed The HRQoL was assessed using the EuroQol dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression) accompanied by the cognition add-on questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L+C) and associated visual analogue scale (VAS). We described the EQ-5D dimensions and VAS values and computed health utility (HU) values using the Zimbabwean tariff. The proportions of miners reporting no problem in each EQ-5D dimension were compared with corresponding proportions reporting any problem (moderate or severe), and mean HU and VAS values were analysed across subgroups of the sample. To test differences between subgroups, Fisher's exact test was used and between urban and mining population, Student's t-test was used. RESULTS: The reported health states of miners were homogenous, with a large amount (42%) reporting 'full health'. Mean (SD) VAS and HU values were 81.0 (17.5) and 0.896 (0.13), respectively. Subgroup analysis showed that miners with a lower education reported significantly more problems in the dimension of daily activities and miners with mercury contact had more problems in the dimensions of pain/discomfort and cognition. Comparison between mining and urban population showed that in the oldest age group, self-rated VAS values of miners were significantly higher than of their urban counterparts. CONCLUSIONS: There were no significant differences in the HRQoL of mining and urban populations. However, the reason might be adverse health effects faced by the urban population that do not apply to rural mining areas. A higher education level of miners can improve the HRQoL, which is especially impaired by problems in the cognition dimension
3	1	OBJECTIVE: To assess measurement properties of the two youth versions of EQ-5D (i.e., 5-level EQ-5D-Y [Y-5L] and 3-level EQ-5D-Y [Y-3L]) and KIDSCREEN-10 in China. METHODS: Children and adolescents attending schools in Shanghai, China were recruited to self-complete the Y-5L, KIDSCREEN-10, and Y-3L questionnaires Their feasibility was assessed according to missing responses. Convergent validity of the EQ-5D-Y dimensions, a summated dimension score [SDS], and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) were assessed by examining their correlations with the KIDSCREEN-10 index score and dimensions. Known-groups validity of SDS, VAS, and KIDSCREEN-10 index score were tested by comparing the scores of pupils with and without two conditions (i.e., overweight and shortsightedness), and the relative efficiency (RE) between them was also evaluated. RESULTS: A total of 262 pupils (girl: 58.4%; mean age: 12.7 years) were enrolled. Missing responses were low for both the Y-5L (0.3%) and Y-3L (2.4%), and KIDSCREEN-10 (0.3%). The overall ceiling effects were 40.3% for the Y-5L, 44.1% for the Y-3L and 1.1% for the KIDSCREEN-10. The SDS(Y-5L), SDS(Y-3L) and VAS were moderately correlated with the KIDSCREEN-10 index score (|r|= 0.425 for SDS(Y-5L), 0.323 for SDS(Y-3L), and 0.435 for VAS; p < 0.01 for all). Similar EQ-5D-Y and KIDSCREEN-10 dimensions showed moderate to strong correlations (|r|> 0.3). Both the SDS(Y-5L) and SDS(Y-3L) had lower values, and VAS and KIDSCREEN-10 index score had higher values for pupils without shortsightedness compared with those for their counterparts. The difference was statistical significance for the SDS(Y-5L) and VAS (P < 0.05 for both), which also had higher RE in the condition. CONCLUSIONS: The Y-5L, Y-3L, and KIDSCREEN-10 questionnaires are feasible and valid for measuring HRQoL among children/adolescents in China. It also appears that the advantages of Y-5L over Y-3L were modest
4	1	Impaired health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is a major problem in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Antimalarial agents (AMA) are the cornerstone of SLE therapy, but data on their impact on HRQoL are scarce. We investigated this impact using baseline data from the BLISS-52 (NCT00424476) and BLISS-76 (NCT00410384) trials (n = 1684). HRQoL was self-reported using the Medical Outcomes Study short-form 36 (SF-36), functional assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT)-Fatigue and 3-level EuroQoL 5-Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaires. Patients on AMA (n = 1098/1684) performed better with regard to SF-36 physical component summary, physical functioning, role physical, bodily pain, FACIT-Fatigue, EQ-5D utility index and EQ-5D visual analogue scale scores The difference in SF-36 physical functioning (mean ± standard deviation (SD): 61.1 ± 24.9 versus 55.0 ± 26.5; p < 0.001) exceeded the minimal clinically important difference (≥5.0). This association remained significant after adjustment for potential confounding factors in linear regression models (standardised coefficient, β = 0.07; p = 0.002). Greater proportions of AMA users than non-users reported no problems in the mobility, self-care, usual activities and anxiety/depression EQ-5D dimensions. AMA use was particularly associated with favourable HRQoL in physical aspects among patients with active mucocutaneous and musculoskeletal disease, and mental aspects among patients with active renal SLE These results provide support in motivating adherence to AMA therapy. Exploration of causality in the relationship between AMA use and favourable HRQoL in SLE has merit
5	1	BACKGROUND: Posterior instrumentation using pedicle screws and rods is the most commonly used technique for the treatment of thoracolumbar fractures of the spine. The procedure aims to restore the neurologic and biomechanical functions of the spine and allows for early mobilization and rapid reintegration into society. It is unclear whether the magnitude of correction has an effect on postoperative outcomes. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine whether the magnitude of sagittal angular correction during posterior instrumentation of the spine had an effect on postoperative quality of life, pain and function outcomes as measured using the EQ5D-3L and the Core Outcome Measures Index (COMI) instruments. We also aimed to quantify the correlation between EQ5D-3L and COMI scores. METHODS: We analyzed the pre- and postoperative radiographs of 52 patients who underwent percutaneous pedicle screw placement for thoracolumbar fractures, as well as their self-reported EQ5D-3L and COMI quality of life, pain and functional outcome scores. Regression models were constructed to estimate the effect that the magnitude of Cobb angle correction had on postoperative outcomes. We also estimated the correlation between EQ5D-3L and COMI scores. RESULTS: The median EQ5D-3L TTO score was 0.9 (range, -0.1 to 1). The median COMI score was 3.1 (range, 0 to 10). There was no significant effect of the magnitude of correction on EQ5d-3L TTO scores (p= 0.3379; R= 0.36) or on COMI scores (p= 0.3379; R= 0.15). Age and bone mineral density were not found to be significant predictors of outcome (p= 0.05). There was a strong correlation between the EQ5D-3L TTO and COMI scores (r=-0.62). CONCLUSION: The magnitude of Cobb angle correction during pedicle screw instrumentation of thoracolumbar fractures did not influence quality of life, pain or function outcomes. There was good correlation between EQ5D-3L TTO scores and COMI scores
6	1	OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the relationship between residential district of people, such as power plant, steel-mill and petrochemical industries, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). METHODS: Using a cross-sectional study design, we randomly recruited participants for our study from industrial areas (thermoelectric power plant, steel-mill, petrochemical industry) and rural areas. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify the relationships between Euro quality of life-5 dimension (EQ-5D) scores and living region, while controlling for sociodemographic characteristics. RESULTS: In adjusted model, quality of life decreased with increasing category of age and were lower for females than males. EQ-5D scores of people living in the vicinity of thermoelectric power plant were significant lower than those of people living the vicinity of comparison region (odds ratio, 1.59; 95% confidence interval, 1.00 to 2.53). CONCLUSIONS: Living region of thermoelectric power plant, was strongly associated with scores on the EQ-5D. More research is needed to elucidate the mechanisms which makes the relationship with the living regions and HRQoL
7	1	PURPOSE: To compare outcomes of patients who received simultaneous tributary endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) or foam sclerotherapy (FS) with EVLA of the great saphenous vein (GSV) trunk. METHODS AND MATERIALS: This study recruited 418 patients (542 legs) with diagnosed varicose veins. Patients in the EVLA/FS group (255 patients, 327 legs) received concomitant FS for the tributaries with truncal lasering. For the EVLA-alone group (163 patients, 215 legs), tributaries (8W) were ablated with EVLA in addition to the GSV trunk (14W). Complications, Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire (AVVQ), EuroQol Group 5-Dimension Self-Report Questionnaire (EQ-5D), numerical rating scale (NRS) scores, and condition of residual varicosities were assessed at 3 days, 4 weeks, and 6 months after procedure. All residual varicosities were identified and treated with a staged FS at 6 months. RESULTS: Except for ecchymosis, incidence of other complications was not significantly different between both groups at 6 months Pain NRS scores of the EVLA/FS group were remarkably elevated at 4 weeks and then, at 6 months, declined to a level similar to the EVLA-alone group. The EVLA/FS group exhibited more significant improvement in both AVVQ and EQ-5D scales than the EVLA group at 6 months, while exhibiting poor improvement at 4 weeks. The EVLA/FS group had a significantly lower rate of residual varicosities than the EVLA group, thus reducing the need for the staged FS. CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm the feasibility and safety of simultaneous tributary EVLA and FS In addition, they indicate better early quality-of-life improvement and a reduced reoperation rate of simultaneously combined truncal EVLA and tributary FS
8	0	The quality of life (QoL) of people with a neurodegenerative pathology is a major issue in the absence of curative treatment. However, validated tools, suitable for patients with major neurocognitive disorders at a severe stage are rare and time-consuming in routine. The aim of this study is to analyze the validity of convergence and the reliability over time of a visual analog scale of well-being named EVIBE (Échelle d'évaluation instantanée de bien-être). The correlation between the EVIBE and another quality of life scale, the Qol-Ad was studied. The correlation with other scales expected to vary with QoL was also studied with the EQ-5D for the measurement of the state of health felt and the NPI-ES for the measurement of behavioral disorders. The EVIBE was administered twice, a few minutes apart, to measure its reliability over time. One hundred and thirty-five patients with Alzheimer's disease or a related disorder were recruited. The results indicated a significant correlation with Qol-AD (r=0.54, p< 0.001). The correlation remained significant when the Mini mental state examination was less than 10 (r=0.39, p=0.05). Correlations between EVIBE and EQ-5D and NPI-ES indicated more mixed results with significant correlation only for the analog part of the EQ-5D (r=0.34, p=0.007). The comparison between the two EVIBEs a few minutes apart showed a satisfactory agreement (r=0.52, p> 0.001). This study shows that EVIBE present a good convergence validity and a good reliability over time to measure the QoL of patients with neurodegenerative pathology even at severe stages of the disease. The scale allows a direct and rapid assessment of the QoL of patients in routine
9	0	OBJECTIVES: The EQ-5D-5L valuation protocol recommends combining time trade-off (TTO) and discrete choice experiments (DCEs). DCEs that include a duration attribute (DCE(TTO)) allow modeling on the quality-adjusted life-year scale Because the choice sequence in a TTO can be construed as a series of DCE(TTO), we used data from a single TTO study to investigate the extent to which DCE values match TTO values when based on identical preferences. METHODS: In a TTO design in which a fixed set of choices were administered without termination at preference indifference, 202 individuals each valued 10 EQ-5D health states. From identified indifference points, we estimated three sets of TTO values: (i) plotting means and (ii) applying censored regressions at -1 and 1. Using all strict preferences, we (iii) estimated DCE(TTO) values with a logit model and a bootstrap procedure RESULTS: Estimated DCE(TTO) and TTO values agreed well at the severe end of the quality-adjusted life-year scale, but with decreasing severity, DCE(TTO) values were higher than TTO-values, with the difference peaking at 0.37 for the mildest health state. Left-censoring TTO values at -1 worsen the agreement for the worst health states and did not affect health states. Right censoring at 1 improved the agreement for mild states. CONCLUSIONS: TTO and the DCE(TTO) values estimated from the same preference data diverged, with increasing difference for milder health states. Although the values converged when applying censored regression at +1, we question the validity of this adjustment
10	1	BACKGROUND: Iron deficiency (ID) without anaemia is a common comorbidity associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that has a negative impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL). METHODS: This multicentre, prospective, observational study examined the response to, safety of and impact on HRQoL of a single 500 mg dose of intravenous ferric carboxymaltose (FCM) in patients with IBD and ID without anaemia. The diagnostic criteria for ID were low serum ferritin (&lt;30 µg/L in the absence of inflammatory activity or &lt;100 µg/L with inflammation) and transferrin saturation index (TSAT) &lt; 16%. The effect on iron levels and HRQoL, according to the health status questionnaires SF-12v2 and EQ-5D, was evaluated 1 month after FCM infusion in an outpatient setting RESULTS: Of the 105 patients who received FCM, 98 patients completed the study After 1 month, a single dose of FCM significantly increased serum ferritin, serum iron and TSAT. Importantly, patients reported fewer ID symptoms and problems on all EQ-5D dimensions. They also had higher EQ-5D visual analogue scale and SF-12v2 scores after treatment. FCM had similar clinical effects on men and women and on patients with Crohn's disease (n = 66) and ulcerative colitis (n = 32) CONCLUSION: A single dose of FCM rapidly restored iron parameters and significantly improved patients' symptoms and HRQoL at 1 month after treatment
11	1	OBJECTIVE: To estimate the social/economic costs of fragile X syndrome (FXS) in Europe and to assess the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients and caregivers. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted in a sample of European countries. Patients were recruited through patients' associations. Data on their resource use and absence from the labour market were retrospectively obtained from an online questionnaire. Costs were estimated by a bottom-up approach and the EuroQol-5 Domain (EQ-5D) questionnaire was used to measure patients' and caregivers' HRQOL. RESULTS: Five countries were included in the analysis. The mean annual cost of FXS per patient varied from €4951 in Hungary to €58,862 in Sweden. Direct non-healthcare costs represented the majority of costs in all countries but there were differences in the share incurred by formal and informal care among those costs. Costs were also shown to differ between children and adults. Mean EQ-5D utility score for adult patients varied from 0.52 in France (n = 42) to 0.73 in Hungary (n = 2), while for caregivers this score was consistently inferior to 0.87. CONCLUSION: Our findings underline that, although its prevalence is low, FXS is costly from a societal perspective. They support the development of tailored policies to reduce the consequences of FXS on both patients and their relatives
12	1	INTRODUCTION: While the EQ-5D-5L has been migrated to several electronic modes, evidence supporting the measurement equivalence of the original paper-based instrument to the electronic modes is limited. OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to comprehensively examine the equivalence of the paper and electronic modes (i.e., handheld, tablet, interactive voice response [IVR], and web) METHODS: As part of the foundational work for this study, the test-retest reliability of the paper-based, UK English format of the EQ-5D-5L was assessed using a single-group, single-visit, two-period, repeated-measures design. To compare paper and electronic modes, three independent samples were recruited into a three-period crossover study. Each participant was assigned to one of six groups to account for order effects. Descriptive statistics, mean differences (i.e., split-plot analysis of variance [ANOVA]), and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were calculated. RESULTS: The test-retest results showed mean differences near zero and ICC values > 0.90 for both the index and the EQ VAS scores. For the electronic comparisons, mean difference confidence intervals (CIs) for the EQ-5D index scores and EQ VAS scores reflected equivalence of the means across all modes, as the CIs were wholly contained inside the equivalence interval. Further, the ICC 95% lower CIs for the index and EQ VAS scores showed values above the thresholds for denoting equivalence across all comparisons in each sample. No significant mode-by-order interactions were present in any ANOVA model. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our comparisons of the paper, screen-based, and phone-based formats of the EQ-5D-5L provided substantial evidence to support the measurement equivalence of these modes of data collection
13	0	OBJECTIVES: To determine the quality of life related to health, functional capacity and mood to hip fracture and one month after surgery. METHOD: Prospective and descriptive study developed from January 2015 to January 2016 in Campo Arañuelo Hospital (Navalmoral de la Mata, Cáceres, Spain). Sociodemographic variables, functional capacity (Barthel Index), dependence (Lawton and Brody Scale), quality of life related to health (Questionnaire Euroqol-5D) and on mood (Yesavage geriatric depression scale GDS15) were collected, prior to the hip fracture and one month after the intervention. RESULTS: Significant decrease in functional capacity (Barthel), the mean score was 86.66 before the fracture, compared to 58.72 at the month after surgery (P<.001). Regarding the Lawton and Brody Scale, the mean was 4.95 and at 2.24months (P<.001). The mean scores on health related quality of life, baseline and post-intervention in the analog visual scale of the EQ-5D questionnaire were 72.95 vs 59.45 respectively (P=.004). Although before the fracture, 94.10% had no alteration in mood, one month after the intervention there was a possible depression of 20.50% and an established depression of 11%. CONCLUSIONS: The fracture of the head affects the functionality of the elderly, causing dependence for the basic and instrumental activities of daily life. It also affects the quality of life related to health and this decreases significantly in the month after surgery. Depressive mood is inversely related to perceived perceived quality of life
14	1	Lower extremity amputations and diabetic foot-related complications in the Caribbean population have been previously reported. However, there is a lack of evidence that assess the quality of life experienced in such amputees. This study aimed to determine the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients after a major lower limb amputation. Data collection was performed for all major lower limb amputations undertaken at a tertiary care institution in Trinidad and Tobago, between January 2012 to December 2016. The quality of life for patients who were accessible, alive, and willing to participate was assessed using the EuroQol 5D-5L tool. Statistical analysis was performed using the Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis tests comparing medians across various subgroups. A total of 134 individuals were still alive and willing to participate in the study. The average EQ-5D-5L index value for the cohort was (0.598), which was significantly lower compared to EQ-5D-5L population norms for Trinidad and Tobago p < 0.05 Statistically significant differences were also seen in median EQ-5D-5L index value for patients who ambulated with a prosthesis (0.787) compared to those who used another device for mobilization (0.656), p < 0.05, and to those patients who did not ambulate (0.195), p < 0.05. A comparable Quality of life was seen between the level of amputation (transtibial versus transfemoral) and gender (males versus females), p-values were 0.21 and 1.0, respectively. Overall quality of life after major amputation, as well as independent mobilization with a prosthesis, continues to be problematic in the Caribbean population. Factors adversely related to the quality of life post major amputation include increasing age, problems related to mobility, and non-ambulatory patients
15	1	Pregnant women living with HIV represent one of the most high-priority groups for HIV treatment and health assessment. Although social support has been shown to be a protective factor for improved health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and depression and anxiety have been identified as two major causes of psychological distress among people living with HIV, it is still unclear how social support, anxiety, and depression interact to influence HRQoL. The objective of our study was to demonstrate the nature of predictors, direct effects and mediator effects among social support, anxiety, depression symptoms and HRQoL in pregnant women living with HIV. We investigated a total of 101 pregnant women living with HIV in Yunnan province in China from April 2016 to June 2016. All participants completed the Social Support Rating Scale (SSRS), the Chinese version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scales (HADS) and Quality of Life instruments (EuroQoL Five Dimensions Questionnaire, EQ-5D). The relationships between the variables were examined by Pearson's or Spearman's correlation analysis. Predictor effects were tested using separate multiple regressions, controlling for demographic variables and HIV diagnosis variables. Direct and mediation effects of social support on HRQoL were tested using a structural equation model (SEM). Anxiety and depression symptoms were negatively correlated with subjective social support, support utilization, social support and HRQoL. Social support significantly predicted better HRQoL, and anxiety and depression symptoms significantly predicted poorer HRQoL. Anxiety and depression symptoms partially mediated the associations between social support and HRQoL. Anxiety and depression symptoms completely mediated the associations of objective support and support utilization with HRQoL. Interventions to improve HRQoL in pregnant women living with HIV must consider the mediation effect of anxiety and depression symptoms on the association between social support and HRQoL. Social support interventions are valid only when anxiety and depression symptoms are managed effectively
16	1	OBJECTIVE: The burden of uncontrolled asthma on patients in Jordan is largely unknown. This study assessed different aspects of asthma clinical features: the level of asthma control, its correlation with quality of life, and possible predictors of asthma control. METHODS: Face-to-face interviews with asthmatic patients (≥16 years old) in north Jordan from 2013 to 2014 were conducted Outcomes measures were assessed using the asthma control test (ACT), the mini asthma quality of life questionnaire (mini-AQLQ), and the Generic health-related quality of life (EQ-5D). The relationship between asthma control and quality of life was examined using Spearman's correlation coefficient. Predictors of asthma control were determined using multivariable logistic regression adjusted for confounders. RESULTS: A total of 255 patients were recruited (mean age 45.16 years, 74.5% female). Approximately one-third of subjects (30.6%; n = 78) had controlled asthma (ACT ≥ 20). A strong correlation between asthma control and both mini-AQLQ and EQ-5D scores was identified (p < 0.001). Subjects who required to step-up treatment (OR = 0.12, 95% CI: 0.02-0.63, p = 0.01) and with acute asthma exacerbation (OR = 0.32, 95% CI: 0.18-0.58, p < 0.001) were independently associated with poor asthma control. CONCLUSIONS: Most of the recruited patients have not achieved optimal asthma control and was associated with low quality of life. The study highlights that even in low-income countries, a simple assessment tool such as the ACT can be utilized to screen and categorize asthma control This approach would facilitate a better treatment plan and eventually improve asthma control and quality of life in asthma patients
17	0	PURPOSE: The EQ VAS is an integral part of EQ-5D, a commonly used instrument for health-related quality of life assessment. This study aimed to calculate the minimal important change (MIC) thresholds for the EQ VAS for improvement and deterioration after surgery for disk herniation or spinal stenosis. METHODS: Patients, who were surgically treated for disk herniation or spinal stenosis between 2007 and 2016, were recruited from the Swedish spine register Preoperative and 1-year postoperative data for a total of 25772 procedures were available for analysis. We used two anchor-based methods to estimate MIC for EQ VAS: (1) a predictive model based on logistic regression and (2) receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves. The SF-36 health transition item was used as anchor. RESULTS: The EQ VAS MIC threshold for improvement after disk herniation surgery ranged from 8.25 to 11.8 while the corresponding value for deterioration ranged from - 6.17 to 0.5. For spinal stenosis surgery the corresponding MIC values ranged from 10.5 to 14.5 and - 7.16 to - 6.5 respectively. There were moderate negative correlations (disk herniation - 0.47, spinal stenosis - 0.46) between the 1 year change in the EQ VAS and the SF-36 health transition item (MIC anchor). CONCLUSIONS: For EQ VAS, we recommend a MIC threshold of 12 points for improvement after surgery for disk herniation or spinal stenosis, whereas the corresponding threshold for deterioration is - 7 points. There are marked differences between the EQ VAS MIC for improvement and deterioration after surgery for disk herniation or spinal stenosis. The MIC value varied depending on the method used for MIC estimation
18	1	"OBJECTIVES: To report health-state utility values measured using the five-level EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) in a large sample of patients with end-stage renal disease and to explore how these values vary in relation to patient characteristics and treatment factors. METHODS: As part of the prospective observational study entitled ""Access to Transplantation and Transplant Outcome Measures,"" we captured information on patient characteristics and treatment factors in a cohort of incident kidney transplant recipients and a cohort of prevalent patients on the transplant waiting list in the United Kingdom. We assessed patients' health status using the EQ-5D-5L and conducted multivariable regression analyses of index scores. RESULTS: EQ-5D-5L responses were available for 512 transplant recipients and 1704 waiting-list patients. Mean index scores were higher in transplant recipients at 6 months after transplant surgery (0.83) compared with patients on the waiting list (0.77). In combined regression analyses, a primary renal diagnosis of diabetes was associated with the largest decrement in utility scores. When separate regression models were fitted to each cohort, female gender and Asian ethnicity were associated with lower utility scores among waiting-list patients but not among transplant recipients. Among waiting-list patients, longer time spent on dialysis was also associated with poorer utility scores. When comorbidities were included, the presence of mental illness resulted in a utility decrement of 0.12 in both cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides new insights into variations in health-state utility values from a single source that can be used to inform cost-effectiveness evaluations in patients with end-stage renal disease"
19	0	BACKGROUND: Opioids and acetaminophen are both widely used to relieve pain after non-operative treatment of limb fractures, but evidence for the superiority of opioids versus acetaminophen is lacking. In this study, we aim to determine whether acetaminophen is non-inferior to the acetaminophen/oxycodone combination for pain relief after non-operative fixation of an extremity limb fracture. We hypothesize that acetaminophen is non-inferior to the acetaminophen/oxycodone combination. METHODS: A double-blind randomized controlled trial will be conducted. Power analysis determined that 1226 participants will be needed (P <0.05, power 90%). Patients with acute limb fracture who receive non-operative treatment will be recruited and randomly allocated into two groups: the intervention group will receive oral oxycodone (10 mg) and acetaminophen (650 mg), and the control group will receive acetaminophen (650 mg) only. All participants will be instructed to take one pill of study medication on an as-needed basis and no more frequently than once every 8 h. The primary outcome measure will be scores on the 11-point Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11) over 14 days. Secondary outcome measures are scores on the Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS), Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), EuroQol five-dimension questionnaire (EQ-5D), self-rated satisfaction with the analgesia produced, self-reported nighttime sleep duration, number of intervention or control pills used, and total duration for taking intervention or control medication. Change of pain scores and the number of times that analgesic drugs were taken in the two groups will be statistically evaluated with Student t tests according to their fracture site DISCUSSION: This study will be a randomized controlled trial that is adequately powered to test the hypothesis that acetaminophen is non-inferior to the combination of acetaminophen and oxycodone in relieving objectively measured pain after non-operative treatment of limb fractures in adults. It will hopefully provide a safe and effective analgesic plan for such patients. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ChiCTR registry: ChiCTR1800017015 . Registered on July 8, 2018
20	1	INTRODUCTION: Migraine and asthma are two frequent, disabling, chronic disorders with a major impact on patient well-being. The objectives of this study were to compare subjective well-being between patients with severe forms of migraine or asthma using a panel of PROs. METHODS: Adult patients were recruited during routine consultations with chest physicians or neurologists. Patients with severe migraine (reporting headaches on ≥8 days/month and having failed ≥2 prophylactic treatments) and patients with severe asthma (according to the 2017 GINA definition: requiring Step 4 or 5 treatment or presenting uncontrolled symptoms) were eligible. Each patient completed the EuroQol Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), the Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire (WPAI) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HAD). Patients with severe migraine the 6-item Headache Impact Test (HIT-6) and those with severe asthma completed the Asthma Control Test (ACT). RESULTS: 249 patients with severe migraine and 96 with severe asthma were enrolled. Mean EQ-5D-5L utility scores were significantly higher in the severe migraine group than in the severe asthma group (0.75±0.25 vs 0.68±0.26; p<0.01). Low EQ-5D-5L utility scores were associated with frequent (≥15 headache days/month) or disabling (HIT-6 score ≥60) headaches and with poor asthma control. Patients with severe migraine more frequently presented a HAD depression score ≥11 (23.0% in severe migraine; 7.5% in severe asthma; p<0.01), whereas those with severe asthma more frequently reported problems with mobility, self-care and usual activities. Absenteeism (percent worktime missed) was similar in both groups (severe migraine: 9.0%±19.1%; severe asthma: 13.8%±22.9%) but work impairment was higher in the severe migraine group (44.3% vs 28.4%; p<0.01) CONCLUSION: Quality of life, work activity and psychological distress are all deteriorated in both severe migraine and severe asthma. Different aspects are affected in the two diseases: a greater impact on psychological aspects in severe migraine and a greater impact on physical aspects in severe asthma
21	1	"OBJECTIVE: Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is a critical determinant to assess the severity of chronic diseases like diabetes mellitus. It has a close association with complications, comorbidities, and medical aid. This study aimed to estimate the prevalence of medical comorbidities and determine the relationship between comorbidities and HRQoL among type 2 diabetic patients of southern Bangladesh. METHOD: This study was a cross-sectional study conducted through face to face interviews using a pre-tested structured questionnaire and by reviewing patient's health records with prior written consent. The study was conducted on 2,136 patients with type 2 diabetes attending five hospitals of Chattogram, Bangladesh, during the tenure of November 2018 to July 2019. Quality of life was measured using the widely-used index of EQ-5D that considers 243 different health states and uses a scale in which 0 indicates a health state equivalent to death and 1 indicates perfect health status. The five dimensions of the quality index included mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain or discomfort, and anxiety or depression. RESULTS: Patients with three comorbidities and with four or more comorbidities had a higher probability of reporting ""extreme problem"" or ""some problem"" in all five dimensions of the EQ-5D index compared with those without comorbidity (Odds ratio: mobility, 3.99 [2.72-5.87], 6.22 [3.80-10.19]; usual activity, 2.67 [1.76-4.06], 5.43 [3.28-8.98]; self-care, 2.60 [1.65-4.10], 3.95 [2.33-6.69]; pain or discomfort, 2.22 [1.48-3.33], 3.44 [1.83-6.45]; anxiety or depression, 1.75 [1.07-2.88], 2.45 [1.19-5.04]). The number of comorbidities had a negative impact on quality of life. CONCLUSION: Prevalent comorbidities were found to be the significant underlying cause of declined HRQoL. To raise diabetes awareness and for better disease management, the exposition of comorbidities in regards to HRQoL of people with diabetes should be considered for type 2 diabetes management schemas"
22	1	BACKGROUND: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is one of the psychopathological consequences of sexual and/or physical abuse. The economic burden is assumed to be high, whereas health-related quality of life and education is negatively affected. This study aims to determine health care costs, health-related quality of life, and educational interruption in adolescents and young adults with PTSD after sexual and/or physical abuse in Germany. METHODS: This analysis used data of 87 participants aged 14-21 years of a randomized controlled trial. Health care utilization, health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L), sick leave days, productivity, and delay or failure to achieve educational aims were assessed Health care costs from a payer perspective were calculated using unit costs for the year 2014. RESULTS: Mean health care costs for a six-month period were 5,243€ (SE 868€). In particular, costs of inpatient stays in psychiatric hospitals, general hospitals and rehabilitation as well as child welfare institutions were high. In addition, health-related quality of life was lower due to anxiety/depression, resulting in a mean EQ-5D index and EQ-VAS score of 0.70 and 61.0, respectively. Furthermore, participants reported on average 27 sick leave days, a productivity loss of 61%, and a delay in education attainment as well as having been unable to achieve educational aims. CONCLUSION: PTSD in adolescents and young adults is associated with a high economic burden. Health-related quality of life was substantially reduced. Furthermore, delay and productivity losses in education were observed. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register identifier: DRKS00004787; date of registration: 18(th) March 2013; https://www.drks.de
23	0	"In the course of the chronic skin disease psoriasis, where a variety of treatment interventions is available, a strong growth of health economic studies comparing treatment costs and benefits can be noticed. The objective was to identify health economic evaluations of psoriasis treatments that have been published to date. Of particular interest were the mostly used analysis and outcome parameters, the compared treatments, and the question, if available health economic studies may be used to perform a meta-analysis of qualitative findings. A systematic literature search using PubMed Medline, Ovid Medline, and Cochrane Library was performed for articles, published and available until mid of January 2016. Among the key words were the terms ""psoriasis"" and ""cost-effectiveness"". The search resulted in 318 articles without duplicates. Thereof 60 health economic analyses in psoriasis management were identified. Most of these are cost-effectiveness evaluations (45). The clinical parameter PASI (Psoriasis Area Severity Index) is the most often used cost-effectiveness outcome (33) followed by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) (6). In case of cost-utility analyses, QALYs (quality-adjusted life-years) were mostly generated with the help of EuroQol five dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D) (12), which was partly based on PASI and DLQI values. The majority of health economic studies is focusing on the direct medical and non-medical costs without consideration of productivity losses. Almost 70 % of 60 publications were conducted in Europe. Overall, most considered systemic treatments were the biological agents etanercept (36), adalimumab (27), and infliximab (26) followed by ustekinumab (17) and phototherapy (incl. UV-B, PUVA/psoralen combined with UV-A) (14). Comparisons including only topical treatments mostly focused on vitamin D treatment (14), corticosteroids (13), and coal tar products (6) followed by dithranol (5) and tazarotene (4). Given the setting, compared treatments, and study conditions, different results can be found for medical decision-making. Thereby, it can be noted that there are no standards on methods and outcomes measures available. This leads to a very limited comparability of health economic studies and presents no comfortable basis to examine a meta-analysis of health economic results. The presented systematic review shows the need for nationwide data and interpretation"
24	1	PURPOSE: This study aimed to ascertain the general characteristics of injured patients and use the Andersen Model to identify factors affecting health-related quality of life (QOL) in injured patients with or without activity limitations METHODS: We used data of 1602 injured patients from 2014 to 2017 from the population-based Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, South Korea. QOL was measured using the EQ-5D-3L, and activity limitations were analyzed alongside predisposing factors (gender, age, education level, and marital status), enabling factors (basic living security, health insurance type, private insurance status, household income, and living with family), need factors (number of chronic diseases, subjective health status, and unmet medical needs), and health behaviors (smoking status, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and health screening). Data were analyzed using homogeneity testing, t tests, and logistic and multiple regression. RESULTS: The mean EQ-5D index was 0.8 with activity limitations and 0.9 without activity limitations. In mobility domain, patients without activity limitations showed significant effects of age, education level, number of chronic diseases, subjective health status, and unmet medical needs on mobility, whereas patients with activity limitations only showed a significant effect of age. In self-care domain, age, household income, and number of chronic diseases showed significant factors on patients without activity limitations, but there was no significant factor associated with activity limitations. Among the factors affecting usual activities, gender was found to have a significant effect only on patients with activity limitations, and subjective health status was found to have a significant effect regardless of activity limitations. Among the factors affecting pain/discomfort, living with family only affected pain/discomfort in patients with activity limitations. Among the factors affecting anxiety/depression, gender and alcohol consumption had significant effects only on patients with activity limitations. CONCLUSION: Factors affecting the QOL of injured patients differed depending on whether patients had activity limitations. Therefore, when assessing injured patients, it may be necessary to ascertain the extent of activity limitations, and medical institutions and local communities need when implementing education and interventions to improve their QOL
25	1	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is one of the most common forms of interstitial lung disease presenting in persons 50 years and older. Through a comprehensive review of available studies, we aimed to assess health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of people living with IPF and the instruments used in this assessment.Searches were conducted up to May, 2020. Quality appraisal and data extraction were performed using pre-designed forms. Narrative synthesis approach was used to report results of the systematic review and a random effects model was used for the meta-analysis. A leave-one-out sensitivity analysis was performed, and a trim and fill method was used to assess publication bias.The review included 134 studies. The most used instruments to measure HRQoL were St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), Short Form 36 (SF36) and EuroQoL (EQ5D). Standardised mean scores (95% confidence interval) for these instruments were as follows: SGRQ total score: 44.72 (42.21-47.22); SF36 physical component score (PCS): 37.00 (34.74-39.26) SF36 mental component score (MCS): 50.18 (48.41-51.95); King's Brief Interstitial Lung Disease questionnaire total score: 58.38 (55.26-61.51); and EQ5D utility: 0.73 (0.68-0.79). Analysis of standardised means for both SGRQ and SF36 demonstrated worse scores in physical health domains as compared to mental health domains.This systematic review confirms that IPF negatively affected HRQoL, mostly impacting the physical health domains. This study also demonstrated that a diverse number of instruments are used to evaluate HRQoL. In view of this diversity, a standardised approach to measurement of HRQoL for IPF is important to ensure that comparisons made are reliable
26	1	Measuring health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is critical to evaluate the burden of frailty in the older population.This study explored the prevalence of frailty among Vietnamese older people in rural communities, determined the factors associated with frailty, and examined the differences in HRQOL between non-frail, pre-frail, and frail people. A cross-sectional study was conducted on older adults (≥60 years old) residing in Soc Son district, northern Vietnam Non-frailty, pre-frailty, and frailty conditions were evaluated using Fried's frailty criteria. The EuroQol-5 Dimensions-5 Levels(EQ-5D-5L) instrument was employed to measure HRQOL. Socioeconomic, behavioral, health status, and healthcare utilization characteristics were collected as covariates. Among 523 older adults, 65.6% were pre-frail, and 21.7% were frail. The mean EQ-5D-5L indexes of the non-frailty, pre-frailty, and frailty groups were 0.70 (SD = 0.18), 0.70 (SD = 0.19), and 0.58 (SD = 0.20), respectively. The differences were found between non-frailty and frailty groups (p < 0.01), as well as the pre-frailty and frailty groups (p<0.01). After adjusting for covariates, the estimated mean difference in the HRQOL between the non-frailty and frailty groups was -0.10 (95%CI= -0.17; -0.02) (R(2) = 45.2%), showing a 10% reduction of the maximum EQ-5D-5L index.This study emphasized the high prevalence of frailty among older adults in the rural communities of Vietnam. Frailty was found to be associated with a small reduction of HRQOL in this population
27	0	PURPOSE: Two-stage exchange is the treatment of choice for periprosthetic joint infection (PJI). Factors and outcomes associated with infection recurrence for hip PJI are limited. The primary aim of this study was to determine factors associated with infection recurrence after two-stage exchange. Secondary aims were survival, mobility, and the EuroQol five-dimension scale (EQ-5D-5L) health state. METHODS: We retrospectively investigated patients with two-stage exchange for hip PJI at our institution from 2006 to 2017. Follow-up was conducted for a minimum of four years after the reimplantation. RESULTS: We included 135 patients with 139 hip PJIs. The mean age of the patients was 69.6 years (range 32-88). The infection recurrence rate was 14.4% (n = 20) after a mean follow-up of 8.0 years (range 4.0-13.1). Four factors for recurrence were identified at the time of the first stage: previous orthopaedic diagnoses (p < 0.001), type of explanted prosthesis (p = 0.004), cultured microorganisms (p = 0.033), and sinus tract (p = 0.035). A longer surgical reimplantation time (p = 0.015) was the only one factor found at the second stage. The estimated Kaplan-Meier survival for the total sample was 9.0 years (95% confidence interval 8.3-9.8), without significant difference for those with infection recurrence compared to recurrence-free patients (log-rank 0.931). At the time of follow-up, 89 patients were alive. For these patients, Parker mobility score (p = 0.102), EuroQol five-dimensional scale (p = 0.099), and EQ Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS) (p = 0.027) were inferior in those with infection recurrence, but significance was found only for VAS CONCLUSION: In this study with mid- to long-term follow-up, five factors for infection recurrence were identified. Recurrence did not affect survival, but health-related quality of life was inferior compared to recurrence-free patients The results suggest that the period of the first stage including previous orthopaedic diagnoses requires more consideration in the future
28	1	BACKGROUND: Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are increasingly used to establish the value of health care. In order to reflect value, PROMs should measure outcomes that matter to patients. However, patients are not always involved in the development of PROMs. This study therefore aimed to investigate whether PROMs, which were developed without patient involvement, are relevant to patients and whether the level of importance allocated towards aspects of these PROMs varies between patient groups. METHODS: All patients from 20 Dutch hospitals undergoing hip or knee surgery in 2014 were invited to a PROMs survey Participants were asked to rate the importance of each of the items in the HOOS-Physical Function Short form or the KOOS-Physical Function Short form, the EQ-5D and the NRS pain. RESULTS: Most outcomes were considered important However, 77.7% of hip surgery patients rated being able to run as unimportant Being able to kneel (32.7%) or squat (39.6%) was not important to a considerable minority of knee surgery patients. Pain, especially during rest, was considered very important by both hip (68.2%) and knee (66.5%) surgery patients. Patients who were older, male, experienced overall bad health and psychological health considered many items from the PROMs less important than other patients DISCUSSION: Patients differ in what they consider important. Health-care professionals should explore patients' preferences and discuss which treatment options best fit patients' preferences. Additionally, if PROMs are used in performance measurement, further research is needed to look at whether and how variation in patient preferences can be taken into account
29	1	BACKGROUND: sarcopenia contributes to the development of frailty syndrome Frailty syndrome is potentially improved by modifying insulin resistance, inflammation, and myostatin level. This study is aimed to investigate the effect of metformin on handgrip strength, gait speed, myostatin serum level, and health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) among non-diabetic pre-frail elderly patients. METHODS: a double blind randomized controlled trial study was conducted on non-diabetic elderly outpatients aged ≥ 60 years with pre-frail status based on phenotype and/ or index criteria (Cardiovascular Health Study and/ or Frailty Index 40 items) consecutively recruited from March 2015 to June 2016 at Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital. One-hundred-twenty subjects who met the research criteria were randomized and equally assigned into 3 x 500 mg metformin or placebo group The study outcomes were measured at baseline and after 16 weeks of intervention RESULTS: out of 120 subjects, 43 subjects in metformin group and 48 subjects in placebo group who completed the intervention. There was a significant improvement on the mean gait speed of metformin group by 0.39 (0.77) second or 0.13 (0.24) meter/second that remained significant after adjusting for important prognostic factors (p = 0.024). There was no significant difference on handgrip strength, myostatin serum level, and HR-QoL between both groups. CONCLUSION: 3 x 500 mg metformin for 16 weeks was statistically significant and clinically important in improving usual gait speed as one of the HR-QoL dimensions, but did not significantly improve the EQ-5D index score, handgrip strength, nor myostatin serum level
30	1	Objectives: Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) show impairments in health-related quality of life (HRQL). We aimed to find a disease-specific questionnaire for routine application in large cohorts and to assess its additional explanatory power to generic HRQL tool (EQ-5D-5L). Methods: 1,350 participants of the disease management program COPD received the EQ-5D-5L combined with one of the three disease-specific tools: COPD Assessment Test (CAT), Clinical COPD Questionnaire (CCQ) or St. George's Respiratory Disease Questionnaire (SGRQ) (450 participants each). We compared metric properties and evaluated the Germany-specific experience-based values (EBVS) and utilities in comparison to the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). We calculated the additional explanatory power of the identified disease-specific tool on VAS through regression analysis. Results: 344 patients returned the questionnaire. CAT, CCQ, and SGRQ group did not differ regarding baseline characteristics. The questionnaire specific response rates were 33.7% for CAT, 30.5% for CCQ, and 34.6% SGRQ, thereof 94.0%, 94.3%, and 65.6% valid answers, respectively. EBVS was better suited to reflect VAS than utilities. CAT increased the explanatory power by 10%. Conclusion: CAT outperformed CCQ and SGRQ, and it increased the explanatory power of VAS. EBV combined with CAT seems superior to only generic or disease-specific approaches
31	0	Early mortality (EM; death ≤ 6 months from diagnosis) has been reported in several newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) trials. Before the era of novel agents, the incidence was 10%-14%. Causes of death included infections/pneumonia, renal failure, refractory disease, and cardiac events. Staging systems, such as the revised International Staging System (r-ISS), and prognostic factors including cytogenetics, lactate dehydrogenase levels, and myeloma-specific factors, are useful to assess overall prognosis; however, they cannot predict EM We evaluated patients treated with novel agents in the Connect MM(®) Registry and identified risk factors of the EM cohort. Eligible patients were enrolled in the registry within 60 days of diagnosis. Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to evaluate associations between baseline characteristics and EM Prediction matrices for EM were constructed from a logistic model. Between September 2009 and December 2011, 1493 patients were enrolled in the registry and had adequate follow-up. Of these patients, 102 (6.8%) had EM and 1391 (93.2%) survived for > 180 days. Baseline factors significantly associated with increased EM risk included age > 75 years, higher Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, lower EQ-5D mobility score, higher ISS stage, lower platelet count, and prior hypertension. Renal insufficiency trended toward increased EM risk. These risk factors were incorporated into a prediction matrix for EM. The EM prediction matrix uses differential weighting of risk factors to calculate EM risk in patients with NDMM. Identifying patients at risk for EM may provide new opportunities to implement patient-specific treatment strategies to improve outcomes
32	1	BACKGROUND: A high proportion of cardiac patients suffers from depression, which is an antecedent for suicidal ideation. This study identifies clinical vulnerabilities for suicidal ideation in cardiac patients. METHODS: The primary outcome of the study was severity of suicidal ideation as measured with the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) item No. 9. Covariates were demographics, cardiac characteristics (i.e., Canadian Cardiovascular Society angina rating of chest pain and New York Heart Association rating of shortness of breath), depression (PHQ-8,i.e., PHQ-9 minus item No. 9), anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7, GAD-7), somatic symptoms (PHQ-15), illness perception (Brief-Illness Perception Questionnaire), and health-related quality of life (EuroQol-5D, EQ 5D). RESULTS: Data from 1,976 patients were analysed. At least 14% (95% CI [12%, 16%]) of patients indicated suicidal ideations within the last 2 weeks. Bivariate analyses yielded associations between suicidal ideation and higher levels of depression severity, anxiety severity, somatic symptom burden, chest pain, shortness of breath, negative illness perceptions, reduced health-related quality of life, and a higher probability of living alone (all p < 0.001). A multivariable ordinal regression revealed depression severity and anxiety severity to show the highest associations with suicidal ideation (OR(PHQ-8) = 1.22, p < 0.001; OR(GAD-7)  = 1.09, p < 0.001). Having a defibrillator implant was associated with a lower probability of suicidal ideation (OR = 0.27, p = 0.017). CONCLUSIONS: This study identified several clinical vulnerabilities of suicidal ideation. The results stress the importance of screening for suicidal ideation in clinical practice
33	0	OBJECTIVES: Standard medical management of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) and surgical hematoma evacuation starkly differ, and whilst landmark randomised control trials report no clinical benefit of early surgical evacuation compared with medical treatment in supratentorial ICH, minimally invasive surgery (MIS) with thrombolysis has been neglected within these studies. However, recent technological advancements in MIS have renewed interest in the surgical treatment of ICH. Several economic evaluations have focused on the benefits of MIS in ischaemic stroke management, but no economic evaluations have yet been performed comparing MIS to standard medical treatment for ICH. MATERIALS AND METHOD: All costs were sourced from the UK in GBP. Where possible, the 2019/2020 NHS reference costs were used. The MISTIE III study was used to analyse the outcomes of patients undergoing either MIS or standard medical treatment in this economic evaluation. RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for MIS was £485,240.26 for every quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Although MIS resulted in a higher QALY compared to medical treatment, the gain was insignificant at 0.011 QALY. Four sensitivity analyses based on combinations of alternative EQ-5D values and categorisation of MIS outcomes, alongside alterations to the cost of significant adverse events, were performed to check the robustness of the ICER calculation. The most realistic sensitivity analysis showed a potential increase in cost effectiveness when clot size is reduced to <15ml, with the ICER falling to £74,335.57. DISCUSSION: From the perspective of the NHS, MIS with thrombolysis is not cost-effective compared to optimal medical treatment. ICER shows that intention-to-treat MIS would require a cost of £485,240.26 to gain one extra QALY, which is significantly above the NHS threshold of £30,000. Further UK studies with ICH survivor utilities, more replicable surgical technique, and the reporting of clot size reduction are indicated as the present sensitivity analysis suggests that MIS is promising Greater detail about outcomes and complications would ensure improved cost-benefit analyses and support valid and efficient allocation of resources by the NHS
34	0	"BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) affects 113.9 million people in China, the largest number of any country in the world (JAMA 310:948-59, 2013). T2DM prevalence has risen dramatically from around 1 % in the 1980s to now over 10 % and is expected to continue rising. Despite the growing disease burden, few people with T2DM are achieving adequate management targets to prevent complications. Health system infrastructure in China is struggling to meet these gaps in care, and innovative, cost-effective and affordable solutions are needed One promising strategy that may be particularly relevant to the Chinese context is improving support for lay family members to care for their relatives with T2DM. METHODS: We hypothesise that an interactive mobile health management system can support lay family health promoters (FHP) and healthcare staff to improve clinical outcomes for family members with T2DM through medical assessment, regular monitoring, lifestyle advice and the prescribing of guidelines recommended medications. This intervention will be implemented as a cluster randomised controlled trial involving 80 communities (40 communities in Beijing and 40 rural villages in Hebei province) and 2000 people with T2DM. Outcome analyses will be conducted blinded to intervention allocation. The primary outcome is the proportion of patients achieving ≥2 ""ABC"" goals (HbA1c <7.0 %, blood pressure (BP) <140/80 mmHg and LDL cholesterol <100 mg/dl or 2.6 mmol/L) at the end of follow-up (Diabetes Care 36(Supplement 1):S11-S66, 2013). Secondary outcomes include the proportion of patients achieving individual ABC targets; mean changes in HbA1c, BP, LDL, renal function (serum creatinine and urinary albumin), body mass index, quality of life (QOL, EQ-5D), and healthcare utilisation from baseline; and cost-effectiveness/utility of intervention. Trial outcomes will be accompanied by detailed process and economic evaluations DISCUSSION: The Chinese government has prioritised prevention and treatment of diabetes as 1 of 11 National Basic Public Health Services. Despite great promise for mHealth interventions to improve access to effective health care, there remains uncertainty about how this can be successfully achieved. The findings are likely to inform policy on a scalable strategy to overcome sub-optimal access to effective health care in China. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02726100"
35	0	PURPOSE: Comparability of patient-reported outcome measures over different languages is essential to allow cross-national research. We investigate the comparability of the PROMIS Profile 29, a generic health-related quality of life measure, in general population samples in the UK, France, and Germany and present general population reference values. METHODS: A web-based survey was simultaneously conducted in the UK (n = 1509), France (1501), and Germany (1502) Along with the PROMIS Profile 29, we collected sociodemographic information as well as the EQ-5D. We tested measurement invariance by means of multigroup confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). Differences in the health-related quality of life between countries were modeled by linear regression analysis. We present general population reference data for the included PROMIS domains utilizing plausible value imputation and quantile regression. RESULTS: Multigroup CFA of the PROMIS Profile 29 showed that factor means are insensitive to potential measurement bias except in one item. We observed significant differences in patient-reported health between countries, which could be partially explained by the differences in overall ratings of health. The physical function and pain interference scales showed considerable floor effects in the normal population in all countries. CONCLUSIONS: Scores derived from the PROMIS Profile 29 are largely comparable across the UK, France, and Germany. Due to the use of plausible value imputation, the presented general population reference values can be compared to data collected with other PROMIS short forms or computer-adaptive tests
36	1	OBJECTIVE: Observational studies have suggested positive associations between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels and muscular strength, balance and quality of life. Our aim was to examine whether high-dose vitamin D supplementation would improve these measures as compared to standard-dose vitamin D, as well as the possible muscular effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes encoding vitamin D-related enzymes. DESIGN: A 12-month randomized, double-blind, controlled trial where the participants received daily elemental calcium (1000 mg) plus vitamin D(3) (800 IU). In addition, the participants were randomized to receive either capsules with vitamin D(3) (20 000 IU) or matching placebos to be taken twice a week. PATIENTS: A total of 297 postmenopausal women with osteopenia or osteoporosis. MEASUREMENTS: Muscle strength (handgrip and knee extensor strength), balance (tandem test) and quality of life (EQ-5D) were measured at baseline and after 12 months. The subjects were genotyped for SNPs related to vitamin D metabolism. RESULTS: Of the 297 included women, 275 completed the study. Mean serum 25(OH)D levels dramatically increased in the high-dose group (from 64.7 to 164.1 nmol/L; P<.01), while a more moderate increased was observed in the standard-dose group (from 64.1 to 81.8 nmol/L; P<.01). There was no significant difference between the groups in change in muscular strength, balance or quality of life over the intervention period Polymorphisms in rs3829251 (located in the 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase gene) were associated with muscle strength and treatment effects. CONCLUSION: One-year treatment with high-dose vitamin D had no effect on muscular strength, balance or quality of life in postmenopausal women with osteopenia or osteoporosis as compared to standard dose. The association between rs3829251 and muscle strength needs confirmation in other populations
37	1	BACKGROUND: To describe routine surgical practice using Prestige LP Cervical Disc (Prestige disc) and patient outcomes for degenerative cervical disc disease in a multicenter 2-year prospective, observational study. METHODS: Patient demographics and intraoperative data were collected; quality of life (QoL) (EQ-5D, EQ-VAS, and neck disability index), average disc height, and adverse events were assessed pre- and postoperatively at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months RESULTS: One hundred and ninety-four patients were enrolled (190 patients implanted; female: 67%; mean age: 44.0 years; mean body mass index: 25.6). Disc herniation was the most frequent indication for cervical arthroplasty (80.5%) Thirty-seven percent of patients experienced pain for >1 year prior to baseline assessment. Mean procedure duration was 87.1 minutes, and mean blood loss was 43.8 mL. The majority (71.0%) of Prestige discs were implanted at level C5 to C6, while 16.3% of patients received implants at 2 levels. There was a significant improvement from baseline to 3, 6, 12, and 24 months of follow-up in all QoL assessments. After implantation, the mean disc height at the affected level increased by 0.19 from baseline (0.22) to 3 months (0.41) and remained constant up to 24 months (P < .001). Mean disc height of levels above and below the implant remained comparable at baseline and follow-up. A total of 63 adverse events (44 patients) was recorded, of which 7 (11.1%) were related to the Prestige disc, instrumentation, or procedure; 41 (65.1%) were unrelated; and 15 (23.8%) had an unknown relation. CONCLUSIONS: In line with published findings, our study shows significant improvement in outcomes in the first 3 months after Prestige disc implantation with improvements maintained throughout the study
38	0	BACKGROUND: Low back pain is highly prevalent and a major source of disability worldwide. Spa therapy is frequently used to treat low back pain, but the associated level of evidence for efficacy is insufficient. To fill this knowledge gap, this protocol proposes an appropriately powered, prospective, evaluator-blinded, multi-centre, two-parallel-arm, randomised (1:1), controlled trial that will compare spa therapy in addition to usual care including home exercise (UCHE) versus UCHE alone for the treatment of chronic low back pain METHODS: Eligible patients (anticipated sample size of 358) will have had low back pain for more than 3 months and scores for pain greater than 40 mm on a visual analogue scale (VAS). Following initial consent for UCHE and baseline evaluations, patients are randomised (1:1) to UCHE alone, or UCHE plus spa therapy (18 days of mud packs, underwater massages, showers and water exercises under medical supervision). Patients in the latter arm will be requested to sign an additional consent form as per Zelen randomisation. Follow-up visits will occur at approximately months 1, 6 and 12 and (along with baseline assessments) will cover changes over time in VAS pain scores, the impact of lower back pain on daily life (the Rolland and Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ)), inappropriate fears and beliefs about lower back pain (the fear, avoidance, belief questionnaire (FABQ)), general quality of life (the Euroqol Group 5 dimension, 5 level questionnaire (EQ-5D-5 L)), Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS), consumption of analgesic drugs and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and overall state of health. Health resource use and days of sick leave (and subsequently the associated costs) will also be recorded. The primary outcome is the presence/absence of a clinically relevant change (improvement of at least 30%) in the VAS score for pain at 6 months. DISCUSSION: Despite the fact that previous, rather dated recommendations encourage spa therapy for the treatment of low back pain, the current literary corpus is methodologically poor This protocol has been designed to provide results spanning a thorough range of outcomes at the highest evidence level possible. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03910023. Registered on 10 April 2019
39	1	"Wstęp. Łokieć tenisisty jest to zespół bólowy tkanek miękkich okolicy nadkłykcia bocznego kości ramiennej. Celem pracy było porównanie skuteczności terapii radialną falą uderzeniową (RSWT) z zabiegami laseroterapii i ultradźwięków w badanej grupie. Materiał i metody. Badania przeprowadzono na grupie 77 pacjentów, których poddano terapii radialną falą uderze-niową (RSWT; grupa pierwsza - 40 osób) vs laser i ultradźwięki (grupa druga - 37 osób). Do pomiaru efektów terapii wy-ko--rzystano testy funkcjonal-ne Milla i Thomsona, kwestionariusz EQ-5D-5L do ogólnej oceny stanu zdrowia oraz specy-ficz-ny kwestiona-riusz Patient - Rated Tennis Elbow Ewaluation (PRTEE) oceny funkcjonalnej pacjentów z ""łokciem tenisisty'. Wyniki. Zarówno w pomiarze testem Thomsona i Milla odnotowano istotną statystycznie poprawę wyników w oby-dwu gru-pach. Efekty leczenia istotnie statystycznie różniły się pomiędzy grupami w pomiarze testem Milla (p=0,006) Efekty terapii mie-rzone w skali PRTEE istotnie statystycznie różniły się w dwóch badanych grupach w każdej z kategorii (p&lt;0,001) na korzyść grupy leczonej RSWT. W skali EQ-5D-5L większą statystycznie poprawę zaobserwowano w grupie leczonej RSWT jedynie w kategorii samoobsługi (p=0,024). Wnioski. 1. Zarówno leczenie z zastosowaniem laseroterapii i ultradźwięków jak i radialnej fali uderzeniowej istotnie wpływają na zmniejszenie dolegliwości bólowych, a tym samym na poprawę funkcji kończyny górnej oraz jakości życia osób z zespołem łokcia tenisisty. 2. Wykazano większą krótkotrwałą skuteczność terapii z zastosowaniem radialnej fali uderzeniowej w porównaniu do laseroterapii i ultradźwięków w eliminowaniu bólu oraz poprawie funkcji kończyny górnej. 3. Fala uderzeniowa wydaje się być skuteczną terapią dla pacjentów z zespołem łokcia tenisisty, niemniej należy prowadzić dalsze badania dotyczące długotrwałych efektów prezentowanej metody leczenia"
40	0	AIMS: To identify associations between perceived health and treatment adherence six years after percutaneous coronary intervention. DESIGN: A non-experimental descriptive long-term follow-up study. METHODS: Baseline data (n = 416) were collected in 2013, with follow-up data collected in 2019 (n = 154), using the EuroQoL scale, EuroQoL visual analogue scale, and Adherence of Patients with Chronic Disease Instrument. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics and multivariate methods. RESULTS: The average age of the 154 respondents was 68.5 years (SD 7.01), with a majority males (n = 118, 86.6%). Adherence to a healthy lifestyle, good perceived results of care, support from nurses, high sense of normality, low fear of complications, motivation, older age, and duration of coronary artery disease were associated with better general perceived health as well as its dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression). CONCLUSION: Support from nurses is a key factor to ensuring high perceived health among post-percutaneous coronary intervention patients. This support must be continuous and motivate the patient to adhere to a healthy lifestyle. Patients should feel comfortable sharing their problems and fears. This type of relationship will allow health care professionals to assess the patient's current situation and address potential problems about mobility, pain and discomfort, as well as anxiety and depression to strengthen the patient's sense of normality and enable them to confidently lead a normal life. IMPACT: The research aimed to gain knowledge about how perceived health is associated with treatment adherence six years after percutaneous coronary intervention. The results emphasise that a nurse's support of patients is crucial to the care process, as adherence to treatment showed a clear positive association with perceived health in the analysed sample of post-PCI patients
41	0	na
42	1	AIMS: Golf is a popular pursuit among those requiring total hip arthroplasty (THA). The aim of this study was to determine if participating in golf is associated with greater functional outcomes, satisfaction, or improvement in quality of life (QoL) compared to non-golfers. METHODS: All patients undergoing primary THA over a one-year period at a single institution were included with one-year postoperative outcomes. Patients were retrospectively followed up to assess if they had been golfers at the time of their surgery. Multivariate linear regression analysis was performed to assess the independent association of preoperative golfing status on outcomes. RESULTS: The study cohort consisted of a total of 308 patients undergoing THA, of whom 44 were golfers (14%). This included 120 male patients (39%) and 188 female patients (61%), with an overall mean age of 67.8 years (SD 11.6). Golfers had a greater mean postoperative Oxford Hip Score (OHS) (3.7 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.9 to 5.5); p < 0.001) and EuroQol visual analogue scale (5.5 (95% CI 0.1 to 11.9); p = 0.039). However, there were no differences in EuroQoL five-dimension score (p = 0.124), pain visual analogue scale (p = 0.505), or Forgotten Joint Score (p = 0.215). When adjusting for confounders, golfers had a greater improvement in their Oxford Hip Score (2.7 (95% CI 0.2 to 5.3); p < 0.001) compared to non-golfers. Of the 44 patients who reported being golfers at the time of their surgery, 32 (72.7%) returned to golf and 84.4% of those were satisfied with their involvement in golf following surgery. Those who returned to golf were more likely to be male (p = 0.039) and had higher (better) preoperative health-related QoL (p = 0.040) and hip-related functional scores (p = 0.026). CONCLUSION: Golfers had a greater improvement in their hip-specific function compared to non-golfers after THA However, less than three-quarters of patients return to golf, with male patients and those who had greater preoperative QoL or hip-related function being more likely to return to play. Cite this article: Bone Jt Open 2022;3(2):145-151
43	1	BACKGROUND: Optimal surgical intervention for low-grade haemorrhoids is unknown Rubber band ligation (RBL) is probably the most common intervention Haemorrhoidal artery ligation (HAL) is a novel alternative that may be more efficacious. OBJECTIVE: The comparison of HAL with RBL for the treatment of grade II/III haemorrhoids. DESIGN: A multicentre, parallel-group randomised controlled trial. PERSPECTIVE: UK NHS and Personal Social Services. SETTING: 17 NHS Trusts PARTICIPANTS: Patients aged ≥ 18 years presenting with grade II/III (second- and third-degree) haemorrhoids, including those who have undergone previous RBL INTERVENTIONS: HAL with Doppler probe compared with RBL. OUTCOMES: Primary outcome - recurrence at 1 year post procedure; secondary outcomes - recurrence at 6 weeks; haemorrhoid severity score; European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions, 5-level version (EQ-5D-5L); Vaizey incontinence score; pain assessment; complications; and cost-effectiveness. RESULTS: A total of 370 participants entered the trial. At 1 year post procedure, 30% of the HAL group had evidence of recurrence compared with 49% after RBL [adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 2.23, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.42 to 3.51; p = 0.0005]. The main reason for the difference was the number of extra procedures required to achieve improvement/cure. If a single HAL is compared with multiple RBLs then only 37.5% recurred in the RBL arm (adjusted OR 1.35, 95% CI 0.85 to 2.15; p = 0.20) Persistence of significant symptoms at 6 weeks was lower in both arms than at 1 year (9% HAL and 29% RBL), suggesting significant deterioration in both groups over the year. Symptom score, EQ-5D-5L and Vaizey score improved in both groups compared with baseline, but there was no difference between interventions. Pain was less severe and of shorter duration in the RBL group; most of the HAL group who had pain had mild to moderate pain, resolving by 3 weeks. Complications were low frequency and not significantly different between groups. It appeared that HAL was not cost-effective compared with RBL. In the base-case analysis, the difference in mean total costs was £1027 higher for HAL. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were higher for HAL; however, the difference was very small (0.01) resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £104,427 per additional QALY. CONCLUSIONS: At 1 year, although HAL resulted in fewer recurrences, recurrence was similar to repeat RBL. Symptom scores, complications, EQ-5D-5L and continence score were no different, and patients had more pain in the early postoperative period after HAL. HAL is more expensive and unlikely to be cost-effective in terms of incremental cost per QALY. LIMITATIONS: Blinding of participants and site staff was not possible. FUTURE WORK: The incidence of recurrence may continue to increase with time. Further follow-up would add to the evidence regarding long-term clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. The polysymptomatic nature of haemorrhoidal disease requires a validated scoring system, and the data from this trial will allow further assessment of validity of such a system. These data add to the literature regarding treatment of grade II/III haemorrhoids. The results dovetail with results from the eTHoS study [Watson AJM, Hudson J, Wood J, Kilonzo M, Brown SR, McDonald A, et al. Comparison of stapled haemorrhoidopexy with traditional excisional surgery for haemorrhoidal disease (eTHoS): a pragmatic, multicentre, randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2016, in press.] comparing stapled haemorrhoidectomy with excisional haemorrhoidectomy. Combined results will allow expansion of analysis, allowing surgeons to tailor their treatment options to individual patients. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN41394716. FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 20, No. 88. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information
44	1	OBJECTIVE: To describe headache characteristics, medication use, disability, and quality of life in a large patient cohort from the United States who have chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse headache (MOH). METHODS: In all, 610 adult patients were enrolled into the Medication Overuse Treatment Strategy trial from 34 healthcare clinics, including headache specialty, general neurology, and primary care clinics. Descriptive statistics characterize baseline demographics, headache characteristics, medication use, disability (Headache Impact Test 6 [HIT-6] and Migraine Functional Impact Questionnaire [MFIQ]), pain interference (PROMIS Pain Interference), and quality of life (EQ-5D-5L). Relationships with headache frequency were assessed. RESULTS: Mean age was 45 years (SD 13) and 531/608 (87.3%) were females. Mean headache days per 30 was 24.3 (SD 5.5), including 13.6 (SD 7.1) with moderate to severe headache. Daily headaches were reported by 36.1% (219/607) of patients. Acute headache medications were used on 21.5 (SD 7.5) per 30 days. The most commonly overused medications were simple analgesics (378/607, 62% of patients), combination analgesics (246/607, 41%), and triptans (128/607, 21%). HIT-6, MFIQ, PROMIS Pain Interference, and EQ-5D-5L scores demonstrated substantial negative impact from CM with MOH on patient functioning and quality of life. Higher headache frequency was associated with more moderate-severe headache days, more frequent acute headache medication use, greater headache-related disability, and lower quality of life. Only 272/606 (44.9%) were taking migraine preventive medication. CONCLUSIONS: CM with MOH is associated with a large burden on patients in the United States. Higher headache frequency is associated with greater impact on functioning, pain interference, and quality of life
45	1	Introduction: Infection is a detrimental complication of operatively treated hip fractures. The objective of this retrospective case-control study was to evaluate the mortality, the physical function and the quality of life of hip fractures complicated with infection and determine risk factors for deep infection in hip fractures. Patients and methods: All patients with hip fractures (31A and 31B OTA/AO) that were operatively managed over a 10-year period that subsequently developed deep infection were included in the study. Thirty-nine patients met the inclusion criteria. These patients were compared with a matched control group of 198 patients without infection. Minimum follow-up was 1 year. Mortality, Barthel index score, EQ-5D-5L, Parker mobility score and visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score were compared between groups. Results: Mortality at 1 month was 20.5 % and 43 % at 1 year. Half of the infections were acute and 28 % were polymicrobial Mortality was greater in the infection group (43 % vs. 16.5 %, p < 0.0014 ), and Barthel index was inferior in the infection group (14 vs. 18, p < 0.0017 ) compared to control group. Logistic regression analysis revealed that time from admission to surgery was a negative factor that predisposed to infection Conclusions: Patients complicated with infection after a hip fracture have higher mortality and inferior functional results. Delay from admission to surgery predisposes to infection
46	1	AIM: To test the hypothesis that higher seizure burden in Dravet syndrome is associated with increased comorbidities and lower quality of life (QoL) in a large cohort of patients with Dravet syndrome and their caregivers in Europe METHOD: An extensive survey of caregivers of patients with Dravet syndrome on experiences of diagnosis, seizure burden, management, social and financial impact, and health services use was administered online in 10 languages. RESULTS: The survey received 584 unique responses from caregivers of paediatric (83%) and adult (17%) patients with Dravet syndrome (aged <1-48y). Despite broadly following current treatment guidance, less than 10% of patients were seizure free in the previous 3 months. Nearly all (99.6%) patients aged 5 years or older experienced at least one or more motor, speech, learning, or behavioural impairment. High seizure frequency was related to more reports of emergency treatment, comorbidities, and a lower QoL (as measured by the standardized instrument EQ-5D-5L). If not diagnosed at the first instance, the majority (83%) of adults, but less than 20% of 6- to 11-year-olds were diagnosed after 4 or more years. INTERPRETATION: Patients with Dravet syndrome with the highest current seizure frequency suffer from more comorbidities and have a lower QoL. Therefore, more effective antiepileptic treatments are needed. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS: The survey captured about 15% of all patients with Dravet syndrome in Europe. Less than 10% of patients had current seizure freedom. Patients with a high current seizure burden have more comorbidities and lower quality of life
47	0	OBJECTIVES: To develop and undertake initial validation of a patient-reported outcome measure to assess health-related quality of life in patients with breast cancer-related upper limb lymphedema (ULL). STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: We developed and validated the Upper Limb Lymphedema Quality of Life (ULLQoL) scale in two stages: devising the items and pretesting with patients and clinicians; longitudinal validation to test its psychometric properties-underlying dimensions, internal consistency, test-retest reliability, construct validity, and responsiveness. Patients with ULL were recruited from two outpatient clinics RESULTS: We derived the ULLQoL scale from a pool of 98 items generated by patients. After further consultation, we produced the draft ULLQoL scale. For validation, 103 patients with ULL completed the draft scale and two generic health measures: SF-36 and ED-5D-3L. Psychometric analysis identified two components, physical and emotional well-being, with good internal consistency and test-retest reliability. Significant correlations with SF-36, EQ-5D-3L, and percentage excess limb volume confirmed construct validity. The ULLQoL scale showed good responsiveness to change reported by lymphedema patients and moderate to large effect sizes. CONCLUSION: The 14-item ULLQoL scale is a robust ULL-specific measure that is feasible and valid to use in both the clinical and research settings
48	0	BACKGROUND: In Germany, the care of patients with inflammatory arthritis could be improved. Although specialized rheumatology nurses could take over substantial aspects of patient care, this hardly occurs in Germany. Thus, the aim of the study is to examine structured nursing consultation in rheumatology practices METHODS/DESIGN: In total, 800 patients with a stable course of rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in 20 centers in North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony will be randomized to either nurse-led care or standard care Participating nurses will study for a special qualification in rheumatology and trial-specific issues. It is hypothesized that nurse-led care is non-inferior to standard care provided by rheumatologists with regard to a reduction of disease activity (DAS28) while it is hypothesized to be superior regarding changes in health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) after 1 year. Secondary outcomes include functional capacity, patient satisfaction with treatment, and resource consumption. DISCUSSION: Since there is insufficient care of rheumatology patients in Germany, the study may be able to suggest improvements. Nurse-led care has the potential to provide more efficient and effective patient care. This includes a more stringent implementation of the treat-to-target concept, which may lead to a higher percentage of patients reaching their treatment targets, thereby improving patient-related outcomes, such as quality of life, functional capacity, and participation. Additionally, nurse-led care may be highly cost-effective. Finally, this project may form the basis for a sustainable implementation of nurse-led care in standard rheumatology care in Germany. TRIAL REGISTRATION: German Clinical Trials Register, DRKS00015526. Registered on 11 January 2019
49	1	PURPOSE: Arthroscopic capsular release (ACR) and Manipulation under anaesthesia(MUA) have been widely used in the treatment of frozen shoulder (FS) However, there is only limited Level-I evidence to prefer ACR over MUA. The purpose of our study was to conduct a randomised trial comparing ACR versus MUA to assess the difference in outcome, complications and cost-effectiveness of both procedures. METHODS: From May 2020 to June 2021, patients presenting with FS were randomised into two groups ACR (n = 44) and MUA (n = 41). Patients with arthritis, full-thickness cuff tears, history of trauma/previous surgery around the shoulder were excluded from the study. Range of movement (ROM), pain grading using visual analogue scale (VAS), functional scores- UCLA, CONSTANT and EuroQol-5D scores were measured pre-operatively and post-operatively. MRI was done at three weeks post-operatively for screening complications of either procedure. Quality-adjusted life years (QALY) was used for cost-analysis RESULTS: Post-operatively, patients had significant improvement in pain, ROM and functional scores in both groups (P < 0.001) with no significant difference between groups at 24 weeks of follow-up. Diabetic patients undergoing ACR had lesser improvement in abduction and external rotation when compared to non-diabetic patients. Labral tears in MUA group and bone bruises in ACR group were the most common complications noted on the post-operative MRI. For ACR cost per QALY gained was 896 USD while that for MUA was 424 USD. CONCLUSION: Both ACR and MUA resulted in good improvement in pain and shoulder function. Good outcomes, simple technique and better cost-effectiveness would still make MUA an attractive option over ACR for treating FS
50	1	PURPOSE: To investigate the clinical impact of performing prostate artery embolization (PAE) on patients with adenomatous-dominant benign prostatic hyperplasia (AdBPH). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twelve patients from the ongoing proSTatic aRtery EmbolizAtion for the treatMent of benign prostatic hyperplasia (STREAM) trial were identified as having AdBPH; defined as two or more adenomas within the central gland of ≥1 cm diameter on multi-parametric MRI (MP-MRI) These patients were age-matched with patients from the STREAM cohort, without AdBPH. Patients were followed up with repeat MP-MRI at 3 months and 1 year International prostate symptom score (IPSS), international index for erectile function (IIEF), and quality of life assessment from the IPSS and EQ-5D-5S questionnaires were recorded pre-PAE and at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 1 year RESULTS: The mean age of patients was 68 (61-76). All patients had PAE as a day-case procedure. The technical success in the cohort was 23/24 (96%). There was a significant reduction in prostate volume following embolization with a median reduction of 34% (30-55) in the AdBPH group, compared to a mean volume reduction of 22% (9-44) in the non-AdBPH group (p = 0.04). There was a significant reduction in IPSS in the AdBPH group following PAE when compared with the control group [AdBPH median IPSS 8 (3-15) vs. non-AdBPH median IPSS 13 (8-18), p = 0.01]. IPSS QOL scores significantly improved in the AdBPH group (p = 0.007). There was no deterioration in sexual function in either group post-PAE. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first time that AdBPH has been identified as being a predictor of clinical success following PAE
51	1	PURPOSE: To investigate if the presence or absence of preoperative endplate Modic changes (MC) is predictive for clinical outcomes in degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS) patients undergoing decompression-alone or decompression with instrumented fusion surgery. METHODS: Two hundred five patients were included and categorized into four groups; 102 patients into the decompression-alone group with MCs, 41 patients into the fusion group with MCs, 46 patients into the decompression-alone group without MCs, and 16 patients into the fusion group without MCs. Clinical outcome was quantified with changes in spinal stenosis measure (SSM) symptoms, SSM function, NRS pain, and EQ-5D-3L sum score over time (measured at baseline, 12-, 24-, and 36-month follow-up) and minimal clinically important difference (MCID) in SSM symptoms, SSM function, and NRS pain from baseline to 36-month follow-up. To investigate if possible effects of MCs had been modified or hidden by confounding variables, we used the group LASSO method to search for good prognostic models. RESULTS: There were no obvious differences in any of the clinical outcome measures between groups at baseline. At 12 months, most patients have improved in all outcomes and maintained improved conditions over time (no significant group differences). Between 70 and 90 percent of the patients maintained a clinically important improvement up to 36 months CONCLUSIONS: Endplate MCs have no significant influence on clinical outcome parameters in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis compared to patients without MCs, independent of the chosen surgical strategy. All patients benefitted from surgical therapy up to 36-month follow-up. These slides can be retrieved under Electronic Supplementary Material
52	1	"PURPOSE: To report our experience with excision and primary anastomosis (EPA) for bulbar urethral stricture. METHODS: Patients who underwent EPA for bulbar stricture between 2012 and 2019 were retrospectively analyzed (n = 308) Successful urethroplasty was defined as the absence of the need for additional treatment. For follow-up, uroflowmetry was performed and the patients completed the validated Urethral Stricture Surgery Patient-reported Outcome Measure and Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) questionnaires before (baseline) and 6 months after EPA. Overall patient satisfaction after urethroplasty was also evaluated. RESULTS: Urethroplasty was successful in 97.1% of patients (n = 299) with a median follow-up of 37 months. A total of 215 patients (69.8%) completed the questionnaires at 6 months postoperatively. The mean maximum flow rate, lower urinary tract symptom (LUTS)-total score, Peeling's picture score, LUTS-specific quality of life, and EuroQol-visual analog scale scores improved significantly from 7.7 ml/s, 11.6, 3.3, 2.4, and 58.0 at baseline to 24.1 ml/s, 2.7, 1.9, 0.4, and 82.1 postoperatively (p < 0.0001 for all comparisons). However, five-point or greater deterioration in the SHIM score was found in 41 patients (19.1%) Regarding patient satisfaction, 98.6% of patients (212/215) were ""satisfied"" (32.6%) or ""very satisfied"" (66.0%) with the outcome. A low postoperative LUTS-total score and Peeling's picture score were independent predictors of a ""very satisfied"" patient (p = 0.001 and p = 0.01, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: EPA had a high success rate and was associated with significant benefits in both subjective and objective outcomes. Contrarily, a high incidence of postoperative erectile dysfunction was observed"
53	0	INTRODUCTION: Osteoarthritis is the most common joint disorder worldwide. Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is considered one of the most effective treatments for end-stage hip osteoarthritis. The number of THAs is expected to increase dramatically in the coming decades. Usual postoperative rehabilitation after primary THA differs between the German and the Dutch system. In the Netherlands, patients undergo fast-track surgery and are discharged into their home environment within a few days without receiving any aftercare. In Germany, patients stay in the hospital for about 12 days before being transferred to a rehabilitation centre for a period of 3 weeks. The superficially more cost-effective Dutch system of usual care after THA is judged critically in both countries due to suboptimal rehabilitation outcomes. The aim of this study is therefore to compare the Dutch with the German usual care rehabilitation after primary THA. It is hypothesised that the German procedure is more effective in terms of functional outcomes and patient satisfaction than the Dutch procedure and that in the long run the German approach is more cost-effective than the Dutch system. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Medical effectiveness will be assessed at four different time points by means of patient self-reported questionnaires and functional tests. Assessments include the Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, Patient Acceptable Symptom State, Short Form 36, EuroQol 5 Dimensions 3 Level Questionnaire, Timed Up & Go Test and Five Times Sit-to-Stand Test. Additionally, long-term economic aspects in both countries will be assessed from a societal perspective, to get a first impression on whether cutting costs for rehabilitation, as practised in the Netherlands, really disburdens the healthcare system efficiently. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study is approved by the Institutional Review Boards of both University Medical Center Groningen (METc2015/483) and Hannover Medical School (no 2874-2015) and will be conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (64th, 2013). The results of the study will be published in international peer-reviewed scientific journals. Patient data will be presented anonymously in any publication or scientific journal. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: DRKS00011345; Pre-results
54	0	BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Pain is commonly associated with symptoms of depression or anxiety, although this relationship is considered bidirectional. There is limited knowledge regarding causal relationships. PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate whether chronic low back pain (LBP) increases the risk of depression or anxiety symptoms, after adjusting for shared familial factors. STUDY DESIGN: This is a longitudinal, genetically informative study design from the Murcia Twin Registry in Spain. PATIENT SAMPLE: The patient sample included 1,269 adult twins with a mean age of 53 years. OUTCOME MEASURES: The outcome of depression or anxiety symptoms was evaluated with EuroQol questionnaire. METHODS: Using logistic regression analyses, twins were initially assessed as individuals in the total sample analysis, followed by a co-twin case-control, which was partially (dizygotic [DZ] twins) and fully (monozygotic [MZ] twins) adjusted for shared familial factors. There was no external funding for this study and no conflict of interest was declared. RESULTS: There was a significant association between chronic LBP and the risk of depression or anxiety symptoms in the unadjusted total sample analysis (odds ratio [OR]: 1.81, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.34-2.44). After adjusting for confounders, the association remained significant (OR: 1.43, 95% CI: 1.05-1.95), although the adjusted co-twin case-control was non-significant in DZ (OR: 1.03, 95% CI: 0.50-2.13) and MZ twins (OR: 1.86, 95% CI: 0.63-5.51). CONCLUSIONS: The relationship between chronic LBP and the future development of depression or anxiety symptoms is not causal. The relationship is likely to be explained by confounding from shared familial factors, given the non-statistically significant associations in the co-twin case-control analyses
55	0	BACKGROUND: Approximately 17 % of all fractures involve the distal radius Two-thirds require reduction due to displacement. High redislocation rates and functional disability remain a significant problem after non-operative treatment, with up to 30 % of patients suffering long-term functional restrictions. Whether operative correction is superior to non-operative treatment with respect to functional outcome has not unequivocally been confirmed. The IlluminOss® System was introduced in 2009 as a novel, patient-specific, and minimally invasive intramedullary fracture fixation. This minimally invasive technique has a much lower risk of iatrogenic soft tissue complications. Because IlluminOss® allows for early mobilization, it may theoretically lead to earlier functional recovery and ADL independence than non-operative immobilization. The main aim of this study is to examine outcome in elderly patients who sustained a unilateral, displaced, extra-articular distal radius fracture that was treated with IlluminOss®. METHODS/DESIGN: The design of the study will be a multicenter, prospective, observational study (case series). The study population comprises elderly (60 years or older; independent in activities of daily living) with a unilateral, displaced, extra-articular distal radius fracture (AO/OTA type 23-A2 and A3) that after successful closed reduction was fixed within 2 weeks after the injury with IlluminOss®. Critical elements of treatment will be registered, and outcome will be monitored until 1 year after surgery. The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand score will serve as primary outcome measure. The Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation score, level of pain, health-related quality of life (Short Form-36 and EuroQoL-5D), time to ADL independence, time to activities/work resumption, range of motion of the wrist, radiological outcome, and complications are secondary outcome measures. Health care consumption and lost productivity will be used for a cost analysis. The cost analysis will be performed from a societal perspective. Descriptive data will be reported DISCUSSION: The results of this study will provide evidence on the effectiveness of operative treatment of patients who sustained an extra-articular distal radius fracture with the IlluminOss® System, using clinical, patient-reported, and societal outcomes. TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study is registered at the Netherlands Trial Register ( NTR5457 ; 29-sep-2015)
56	0	BACKGROUND: This retrospective study evaluates patient-reported outcomes in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) spasticity who were treated with a cannabinoid oromucosal spray (Sativex®, USAN name: nabiximols) after not sufficiently responding to previous anti-spasticity medications. METHODS: Of 276 patients from eight centers in Belgium who began treatment prior to 31 December 2017, effectiveness assessment data were available for 238 patients during the test period of 4 to 8/12 weeks, and for smaller patient cohorts with continued treatment for 6/12 months. RESULTS: Mean 0-10 spasticity Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) scores improved from 8.1 at baseline to 5.2 (week 4), 4.6 (week 8) and 4.1 (week 12). Mean EuroQoL Visual Analogue Scale (EQ VAS) scores increased from 39 at baseline to 52 (week 4), 57 (week 8) and 59 (week 12). Mean NRS and EQ VAS scores remained in the same 12 weeks' range in patients with longer-term data The average dose of cannabinoid oromucosal spray was 6 sprays/day. Most of the 93 out of 276 patients, with initial prescription (33.7%), who discontinued treatment by week 12 did so within the first 8 weeks, mainly due to lack of effectiveness. By week 12, 171 (74%) of the 230 effectiveness evaluable patients reported a clinically meaningful response, corresponding to ≥30% NRS improvement The tolerability of cannabinoid oromucosal spray was consistent with its known safety profile. CONCLUSIONS: More than 60% of the patients with MS who started add-on treatment with cannabinoid oromucosal spray reported a clinically relevant symptomatic effect and continued treatment after 12 weeks
57	0	PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to develop and psychometrically evaluate a new quality of life measure for use in people with mental health problems-the Mental Health Quality of Life questionnaire (MHQoL). METHODS: The MHQoL dimensions were based on prior research by Connell and colleagues, highlighting the seven most important quality of life dimensions in the context of mental health. Items were generated following a systematic review we performed and through inviting expert opinion. A focus group and an online qualitative study (N = 120) were carried out to assess the face and content validity of the MHQoL The MHQoL was further tested for its internal consistency, convergent validity, known-group validity and test-retest reliability among mental healthcare service users (N = 479) and members of the general population (N = 110). RESULTS: The MHQoL consists of a descriptive system (MHQoL-7D), including s items covering seven dimensions (self-image, independence, mood, relationships, daily activities, physical health, future) and a visual analogue scale of general psychological well-being (MHQoL-VAS). Internal consistency was high (Cronbach's ∝ = 0.85) and correlations between MHQoL-7D scores and related measures (EQ-5D-5L, MANSA, ICECAP-A, and BSI) supported convergent validity. The intraclass correlation coefficient of the MHQoL-7D sum score for test-retest reliability was 0.85. Known-group validity was supported by the ability to detect significant differences in MHQoL-7D levels between service users and the general population, and between groups with different levels of psychological distress CONCLUSION: The MHQoL demonstrated favourable psychometric properties and showed promise as a simple and effective measure to assess quality of life in people with mental health problems
58	1	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Multiple variables play a role in spinal cord stimulation (SCS) treatment outcomes, including patient anatomy, pain pattern, lead location, stimulation parameters, and so on. A wide range of stimulation parameters are considered safe and on-label, and as a result a growing number of new frequencies and frequency-combinations are being incorporated into standard practice. A standardized approach to therapy delivery may provide more consistent outcomes for more patients. The Vectors study evaluated whether there is significant sustained improvement in pain and functional outcomes when therapy is delivered using a standardized approach. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Vectors, a post-market, single-arm study evaluated the safety and efficacy of SCS with an implantable neurostimulator starting with 1 kHz stimulation, targeting the T9-T10 disc space following paresthesia mapping. Subjects with chronic intractable low back and leg pain (visual analogue scale [VAS] ≥ 50 mm) were enrolled. The primary endpoint was change in overall pain (VAS) at the three-month visit compared to baseline. Subjects were followed through 12 months. Secondary endpoints included changes in low back and leg pain, quality of life (European Quality of Life - Five Dimensions, EQ-5D-5L), disability (Oswestry Disability Index, ODI), individual subject goals, and subject satisfaction. RESULTS: There was a significant reduction in overall pain (VAS; 45.4 mm) through the three-month visit, which was sustained through 12 months. At 12 months, 79% of subjects had ≥50% improvement in at least one pain domain (overall, lowback or leg) with 85% of subjects reporting therapy satisfaction. There was a decrease in disability and an improvement in quality of life with 70% of subjects achieving a personal activity goal by the three-month visit. CONCLUSIONS: Long-term pain relief and improvement in quality of life and function were achieved when following a standardized workflow. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: The Clinicaltrials.gov registration number for the study is NCT03345472
59	0	The aim of cross-sectional study was to investigate the association between loneliness, increased social isolation, and pain following the COVID-19 outbreak A total of 25,482 participants, aged 15-79 years, were assessed using an internet survey; the University of California, Los Angeles Loneliness Scale (Version 3), Short Form 3-item (UCLA-LS3-SF3) was used to assess loneliness, and a modified item of the UCLA-LS3-SF3 was used to measure the perception of increased social isolation during the pandemic. The outcome measures included the prevalence/incidence of pain (i.e., headache, neck or shoulder pain, upper limb pain, low back pain, and leg pain), pain intensity, and the prevalence of past/present chronic pain. Pain intensity was measured by the pain/discomfort item of the 5-level version of the EuroQol 5 Dimension scale. Odds ratios of pain prevalence/incidence and past/present chronic pain prevalence according to the UCLA-LS3-SF3 scoring groups (tertiles) and the frequency of the perceived increase in social isolation (categories 1-5) were calculated using multinomial logistic regression analysis. The mean pain intensity values among different loneliness and social isolation levels were tested using an analysis of covariance. Increased loneliness and the severity of the perceived social isolation were positively associated with the prevalence/incidence of pain, pain intensity, and the prevalence of past/present chronic pain
60	1	BACKGROUND: A precondition for developing strategies to reduce polypharmacy and its well-known harmful consequences is to study its epidemiology and associated factors. The objective of this study was to analyse the prevalence of polypharmacy (defined as ≥8 prescribed drugs), of potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) and major drug-drug interactions (DDIs) among community-dwelling general practice patients aged ≥75 years and to identify characteristics being associated with polypharmacy. METHODS: This cross-sectional study is derived from baseline data (patients' demographic/biometric characteristics, diagnoses, medication-related data, cognitive/affective status, quality of life) of a northern-Italian cluster-RCT. PIMs and DDIs were assessed using the 2012 Beers criteria and the Lexi-Interact® database. Data were analysed using descriptive methods, Wilcoxon rank-sum tests, Fisher's exact tests and Spearman correlations. RESULTS: Of the eligible patients aged 75+, 13.4% were on therapy with ≥8 drugs. Forty-three general practitioners and 579 patients participated in the study. Forty five point nine percent of patients were treated with ≥1 Beers-listed drugs. The most frequent PIMs were benzodiazepines/hypnotics (19.7% of patients) and NSAIDs (6.6%). Sixty seven point five percent of patients were exposed to ≥1 major DDI, 35.2% to ≥2 major DDIs Antithrombotic/anticoagulant medications (30.4%) and antidepressants/antipsychotics (23.1%) were the most frequently interacting drugs. Polypharmacy was significantly associated with a higher number of major DDIs (Spearman's rho 0.33, p < 0.001) and chronic conditions (Spearman's rho 0.20, p < 0.001), higher 5-GDS scores (thus, lower affective status) (Spearman's rho 0.12, p = 0.003) and lower EQ-5D-5L scores (thus, lower quality of life) (Spearman's rho - 0.14, p = 0.001). Patients' age/sex, 6-CIT scores (cognitive status), BMI or PIM use were not correlated with the number of drugs CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of polypharmacy, PIMs and major DDIs was considerable. Results indicate that physicians should particularly observe their patients with multiple conditions, reduced health and affective status, independently from other patients' characteristics. Careful attention about indication, benefit and potential risk should be paid especially to patients on therapy with specific drug classes identified as potentially inappropriate or prone to major DDIs in older persons (e.g., benzodiazepines, NSAIDs, protonic pump inhibitors, antithrombotics/anticoagulants, antidepressants/antipsychotics) TRIAL REGISTRATION: The cluster-RCT on which this cross-sectional analysis is based was registered with Current Controlled Trials Ltd. (ID ISRCTN: 38449870 ) on 2013-09-11
61	0	BACKGROUND: People with schizophrenia are two to three times more likely to be overweight than the general population. The UK National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends an annual physical health review with signposting to, or provision of, a lifestyle programme to address weight concerns and obesity. The purpose of this randomised controlled trial is to assess whether a group-based structured education programme can help people with schizophrenia to lose weight. METHODS: Design: a randomised controlled trial of a group-based structured education programme. SETTING: 10 UK community mental health trusts PARTICIPANTS: 396 adults with schizophrenia, schizoaffective, or first-episode psychosis who are prescribed antipsychotic medication will be recruited Participants will be overweight, obese or be concerned about their weight INTERVENTION: participants will be randomised to either the intervention or treatment as usual (TAU). The intervention arm will receive TAU plus four 2.5-h weekly sessions of theory-based lifestyle structured group education, with maintenance contact every 2 weeks and 'booster' sessions every 3 months. All participants will receive standardised written information about healthy eating, physical activity, alcohol and smoking. OUTCOMES: the primary outcome is weight (kg) change at 1 year post randomisation. Secondary outcomes, which will be assessed at 3 and 12 months, include: the proportion of participants who maintained or reduced their weight; waist circumference; body mass index; objectively measured physical activity (wrist accelerometer); self-reported diet; blood pressure; fasting plasma glucose, lipid profile and HbA(1c) (baseline and 1 year only); health-related quality of life (EQ-5D-5L and RAND SF-36); (adapted) brief illness perception questionnaire; the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale; the Client Service Receipt Inventory; medication use; smoking status; adverse events; depression symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire-9); use of weight-loss programmes; and session feedback (intervention only). Outcome assessors will be blind to trial group allocation. Qualitative interviews with a subsample of facilitators and invention-arm participants will provide data on intervention feasibility and acceptability. Assessment of intervention fidelity will also be performed. DISCUSSION: The STEPWISE trial will provide evidence for the clinical and cost-effectiveness of a tailored intervention, which, if successful, could be implemented rapidly in the NHS. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN19447796 , registered on 20 March 2014
62	1	BACKGROUND: The patient-rated Core Outcome Measures Index (COMI) assesses the multidimensional impact of back problems on the sufferer. The brevity and comprehensibility of the tool make it practical for use in clinical and research settings. Although the COMI has been cross-culturally adapted in various languages worldwide, there is currently no Japanese version. The aim of this study was to develop a Japanese version of the COMI by: (1) performing a cross-cultural adaptation of the English version and (2) evaluating the psychometric properties of the Japanese version of the COMI in Japanese volunteers with chronic back problems. METHODS: The English version of the COMI was cross-culturally adapted for the Japanese language using established guidelines. The pre-final version was pilot-tested in five Japanese-speaking patients with low back pain (LBP) and a history of spine surgery. The psychometric properties of the Japanese COMI were tested in a group of 1052 individuals with chronic LBP (LBP ≥3 months), aged 20-69 years, who were recruited through a web-based survey. The psychometric properties that were evaluated included convergent and known-group validity, using the following reference questionnaires: EuroQol 5 Dimension, Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire, Short Form 8™ Health Survey, and the Keele STarT Back Screening Tool. RESULTS: The pre-final version of the cross-culturally adapted Japanese COMI was completed without any major problems of understanding or acceptability For the evaluation of its psychometric properties, tests for convergent validity showed moderate correlations between COMI items and the respective reference questionnaires for symptom-specific well-being [- 0.33--0.48] and disability domains [0.48] and strong correlations (> 0.5) for the other domains and the COMI summary score. The analysis of known-group validity showed a linear trend for the COMI score in relation to prognostic risk (P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The Japanese COMI retained conceptual equivalence to the original using comprehensible and acceptable Japanese expressions. We developed a Japanese version of the COMI that displayed qualities that support its convergent and known-group validity. The availability of a Japanese version of the COMI should allow for improved documentation of the care provided to patients with back problems
63	0	BACKGROUND: Sciatica is a common condition reported to affect over 3% of the UK population at any time and is often caused by a prolapsed intervertebral disc (PID). Although the duration and severity of symptoms can vary, pain persisting beyond 6 weeks is unlikely to recover spontaneously and may require investigation and treatment. Currently, there is no specific care pathway for sciatica in the National Health Service (NHS), and no direct comparison exists between surgical microdiscectomy and transforaminal epidural steroid injection (TFESI). The NERVES (NErve Root block VErsus Surgery) trial aims to address this by comparing clinical and cost-effectiveness of surgical microdiscectomy and TFESI to treat sciatica secondary to a PID. METHODS/DESIGN: A total of 163 patients were recruited from NHS out-patient clinics across the UK and randomised to either microdiscectomy or TFESI. Adult patients (aged 16-65 years) with sciatic pain endured for between 6 weeks and 12 months are eligible if their symptoms have not been improved by at least one form of conservative (non-operative) treatment and they are willing to provide consent. Patients will be excluded if they present with neurological deficit or have had previous surgery at the same level. The primary outcome is patient-reported disability measured using the Oswestry Disability Questionnaire (ODQ) score at 18 weeks post randomisation and secondary outcomes include disability and pain scales using numerical pain ratings, modified Roland-Morris and Core Outcome Measures Index at 12-weekly intervals, and patient satisfaction at 54 weeks. Cost-effectiveness and quality of life (QOL) will be assessed using the EQ-5D-5 L and self-report cost data at 12-weekly intervals and Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) data. Adverse event data will be collected. Analysis will follow the principle of intention-to-treat. DISCUSSION: NERVES is the first trial to evaluate the comparative clinical and cost-effectiveness of microdiscectomy to local anaesthetic and steroid administered via TFESI. The results of this research may facilitate the development of an evidence-based treatment strategy for patients with sciatica TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, ID: ISRCTN04820368 . Registered on 5 June 2014 EudraCT EudraCT2014-002751-25. Registered on 8 October 2014
64	1	OBJECTIVE: The EuroQol EQ-5D is a generic questionnaire for describing and valuing patients' health-related quality of life. The purpose of the study was to analyse the construct validity, criterion validity, test-retest reliability and responsiveness of the EQ-5D in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. METHODS: 152 consecutive patients with inflammatory bowel disease (123 with Crohn's disease and 29 with ulcerative colitis) completed the EQ-5D, the SF-36 and the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ). Of the study group, 66 patients filled in the EQ-5D a second time after a 2-week gap, including a transition question. Disease activity was measured by the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) and by Rachmilewitz's Clinical Activity Index (CAI). RESULTS: The EQ-5D showed a moderate ceiling effect. Correlation between the EQ-5D visual analogue scale (EQ VAS) score and CDAI/CAI was r = -0.65/r = -0.71 (both P < 0.001) Levels of responses to EQ-5D items and the EQ VAS score were significantly better for patients in remission than for patients with active disease (all P < 0.01) For the total sample, coefficients of correlation between the EQ VAS score and SF-36 and IBDQ scores ranged between 0.37 and 0.73 (all P < 0.0001). When repeated, the EQ-5D was reliable in stable patients (intraclass correlation coefficient for EQ VAS = 0.77, kappa statistic for items 0.39 to 1.00); the EQ VAS was responsive in patients who, in the transition question, indicated an improvement in health state (effect size 0.79). CONCLUSIONS: The EQ-5D is reasonably valid, reliable and responsive in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. It can be used to generate preference-based valuations of health-related quality of life in inflammatory bowel disease
65	1	"BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: A successful outcome after lumbar discectomy indicates a substantial improvement. To use the cutoffs for minimal clinically important difference (MCID) as success criteria has a large potential bias, simply because it is difficult to classify patients who report that they are ""moderately improved"". We propose that the criteria for success should be defined by those who report that they are ""completely recovered"" or ""much better"". METHODS: A cohort of 692 patients were operated for lumbar disc herniation and followed for one year in the Norwegian Registry for Spine Surgery. The global perceived scale of change was used as an external criterion, and success was defined as those who reported that they were ""completely recovered"" or ""much better"". Criteria for success for each of (1) the Oswestry disability index (ODI; score range 0-100 where 0 = no disability), (2) the numerical pain scale (NRS; range 0-10 where 0 = no pain) for back and leg pain, and (3) the Euroqol (EQ-5D; -0.6 to 1 where 1 = perfect health) were estimated by defining the optimal cutoff point on receiver operating characteristic curves. RESULTS: The cutoff values for success for the mean change scores were 20 (ODI), 2.5 (NRS back), 3.5 (NRS leg), and 0.30 (EQ-5D). According to the cutoff estimates, the proportions of successful outcomes were 66% for the ODI and 67% for the NRS leg pain scale. INTERPRETATION: The sensitivity/specificity values for the ODI and leg pain were acceptable, whereas they were very low for the EQ-5D. The cutoffs for success can be used as benchmarks when comparing data from different surgical units"
66	1	BACKGROUND: The English Department of Health has introduced routine collection of patient-reported outcome data for selected surgical procedures to facilitate patient choice and increase hospital accountability. However, using aggregate health outcome scores, such as EQ-5D utilities, for performance assessment purposes causes information loss and raises statistical and normative concerns OBJECTIVES: . For hip replacement surgery, we explore a) the change in patient-reported outcomes between baseline and follow-up on 5 health dimensions (EQ-5D), b) the extent to which treatment impact varies across hospitals, and c) the extent to which hospital performance on EQ-5D dimensions is correlated with performance on the EQ-5D utility index. METHODS: . We combine information on pre- and postoperative EQ-5D outcomes with routine inpatient data for the financial year 2009-2010. The sample consists of 21,000 patients in 153 hospitals. We employ hierarchical ordered probit risk-adjustment models that recognize the multilevel nature of the data and the response distributions. The treatment impact is modeled as a random coefficient that varies at the hospital level. We obtain hospital-specific empirical Bayes (EB) estimates of this coefficient. We estimate separate models for each EQ-5D dimension and the EQ-5D utility index and analyze correlations of EB estimates across these. RESULTS: . Hospital treatment is associated with improvements in all EQ-5D dimensions. Variability in treatment impact is most pronounced on the mobility and usual activities dimensions Conversely, only pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression correlate well with performance measures based on utilities. This leads to different assessments of hospital performance across metrics. CONCLUSIONS: . Our results indicate which hospitals are better than others in improving health across particular EQ-5D dimensions. We demonstrate the importance of evaluating dimensions of the EQ-5D separately for the purposes of hospital performance assessment
67	1	This study uses the Six-Dimensional EuroQol instrument (EQ-6D) to describe the health status of the Dutch population and investigates sociodemographic differences. The subjects participated in the second Dutch National Survey of General Practice, which was conducted in 2001. Five percent of all listed patients of 104 practices (99% of the Dutch are listed in a general practice) were invited for a health interview. Analyses were prepared for 9685 respondents aged 18 years or more. The EQ-6D is an extended EQ-5D (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression) with a cognitive dimension. The EQ-6D construct validity was examined by comparing it with the SF-36, with good results. Most respondents reported no health problems, while 33% reported pain or discomfort. Women and elderly people generally reported more problems; only depression/anxiety was unrelated to age. Educational level was closely related to problems in all dimensions. The cognitive dimension of the EQ-6D, used for the first time in a general population, gave satisfactory results. This paper includes normative data by age and gender for both the EQ-6D and the EQ-5D. We conclude that the EQ-6D is an efficient tool for establishing the health status in the community, so that different population subgroups can be compared
68	1	BACKGROUND: Despite significant medical advances and improvement in overall mortality rate following burn injury, the treatment of patients with extensive burns remains a major challenge for intensivists. We present a study aimed to evaluate the short- and the long-term outcomes of severe burn patients (total body surface area, TBSA > 40%) treated in a polyvalent intensive care unit (ICU) and to assess the quality of life of survivors, one year after the injury using the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) questionnaire. METHODS: A prospective-observational study was performed in an ICU of a University-affiliated hospital. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify the factors predicting in-hospital mortality. The EQ-5D questionnaire was used to asses participant's long term self-reported general health. RESULTS: During a period of five years, 50 patients participated in the study. Their mean age was 53.8 +/- 19.8; they had a mean of %TBSA burned of 54.5 +/- 18.1. 44% and 10% of patients died in the ICU and in the ward after ICU discharge, respectively. Baux index, SAPS II and SOFA on admission to the ICU, infectious and respiratory complications, and time of first burn wound excision were found to have a significant predictive value for hospital mortality. The level of health of all survivors was worse than before the injury Problems in the five dimensions studied were present as follows: mobility (moderate 68.5%; extreme 0%), self-care (moderate 21%; extreme 36.9%), usual activities (moderate 68.5%; extreme 21%), pain/discomfort (moderate 68.5%; extreme 10.5%), anxiety/depression (moderate 36.9%; extreme 42.1%). CONCLUSIONS: In severe burn patients, Baux index, severity of illness on admission to the ICU, complications, and time of first burn wound excision were the major contributors to hospital mortality. Quality of life was influenced by consequences of injury both in psychological and physical health
69	1	OBJECTIVE: Currently, there is no EQ-5D value set for Poland. The primary objective of this study was to elicit EQ-5D Polish values using the time trade-off (TTO) method. METHODS: Face-to-face interviews with visitors of inpatients in eight medical centers in Warsaw, Skierniewice, and Puławy were carried out by trained interviewers. Quota sampling was used to achieve a representative sample of the Polish population with regard to age and sex Modified protocol from the Measurement and Value of Health study was used. Each respondent ranked 10 health states and valued 4 health states using the visual analog scale and 23 using the TTO. Mean and variance stability tests were performed to determine whether using a larger number of health states per respondent would yield credible results. Modeling included random effects and random parameters models. RESULTS: Between February and May 2008, 321 interviews were performed. Modeling based on 6777 valuations resulted in an additive model with all coefficients statistically significant, R(2) equal to 0.45, and value -0.523 for the worst possible health state. Means and variance did not differ significantly for states valued in the middle and at the end of the TTO exercise CONCLUSIONS: This is the first EQ-5D value set based on TTO in Central and Eastern Europe so far. Because the values differ considerably from those elicited in Western European countries, its use should be recommended for studies in Poland. Increasing the number of health states that each respondent is asked to value using TTO seems feasible and justifiable
70	1	BACKGROUND: Cost-utility analyses are commonly used in economic evaluations of interventions or conditions that have an impact on health-related quality of life. However, evaluating utilities in children presents several challenges since young children may not have the cognitive ability to complete measurement tasks and thus utility values must be estimated by proxy assessors. Another solution is to use utilities derived from an adult population. To better inform the future conduct of cost-utility analyses in paediatric populations, we reviewed the published literature reporting utilities among children and adults across selected conditions common to paediatric and adult populations. METHODS: An electronic search of Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library up to November 2008 was conducted to identify studies presenting utility values derived from the Health Utilities Index (HUI) or EuroQoL-5Dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaires or using time trade off (TTO) or standard gamble (SG) techniques in children and/or adult populations from randomized controlled trials, comparative or non-comparative observational studies, or cross-sectional studies The search was targeted to four chronic diseases/conditions common to both children and adults and known to have a negative impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL). RESULTS: After screening 951 citations identified from the literature search, 77 unique studies included in our review evaluated utilities in patients with asthma (n = 25), cancer (n = 23), diabetes mellitus (n = 11), skin diseases (n = 19) or chronic diseases (n = 2), with some studies evaluating multiple conditions. Utility values were estimated using HUI (n = 33), EQ-5D (n = 26), TTO (n = 12), and SG (n = 14), with some studies applying more than one technique to estimate utility values. 21% of studies evaluated utilities in children, of those the majority being in the area of oncology. No utility values for children were reported in skin diseases. Although few studies provided comparative information on utility values between children and adults, results seem to indicate that utilities may be similar in adolescents and young adults with asthma and acne. Differences in results were observed depending on methods and proxies. CONCLUSIONS: This review highlights the need to conduct future research regarding measurement of utilities in children
71	1	BACKGROUND: It has been shown that Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) lowers the Quality of Life (QoL) of patients and their families Medication as part of the treatment has a favourable effect on symptoms as well as functioning. Evidence on the impact of pharmacological treatment on symptoms of ADHD and the QoL of the patient and their family is still limited. There is a need for further research on QoL in ADHD as well as the relationship between ADHD and the impact on families rather than solely on patients. AIMS OF THE STUDY: Measure QoL of children with ADHD and their parents and explore the association of QoL with treatment response. METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was performed using an online questionnaire to collect QoL data of children with ADHD (based on proxy reporting of parents) and their parents in a sample of members of an ADHD parent association. QoL was measured by EQ-5D and KIDSCREEN-10. Treatment response was based on descriptions by experts, based on compliance and functioning. RESULTS: Analyses were based on 618 questionnaires (treatment responder n=428, treatment non-responder n=190). Mean age of the children was 11.8 years (82.4% male). QoL according to EQ-5D utility was 0.83 and 0.74 for responders and non-responders, respectively (p<0.001). For KIDSCREEN-10 the index was 42.24 and 40.33 for responders and non-responders, respectively (p<0.001) EQ-5D utility scores of the parents were 0.83 on average; no association with their child's treatment response could be established. A significant positive correlation between EQ-5D utility of the children and EQ-5D utility of the parents (R2=0.207, p<0.001) was found. The association between treatment response and children's QoL was significantly influenced by age category, having a sibling with ADHD, and presence of comorbidity. DISCUSSION: Strengths of this study are its sample size and the inclusion of QoL of parents, which has not been reported simultaneously before. The facts that data were derived from members of the ADHD parent association, the data for children were based on parents' report, and lack of possibility for confirmation of the clinical diagnosis are the main study limitations. IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION AND USE: QoL of children with ADHD was shown to be significantly positively associated with response to treatment and negatively affected by comorbidity. In determining the treatment effects in ADHD, QoL and family overall well-being should be a standard consideration as well as an integrated part of health policy discussions on ADHD IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: Policymakers in the field of ADHD should focus on QoL of the patient, but also on the broader effects of effective treatment on the well-being of the parents. IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: Suggestions for further research include the repetition of this study including a control group and obtaining children's self-report on QoL and clinicians report on diagnosis
72	0	na
73	1	PURPOSE: It is well accepted that conditions that cause central vision loss (CVL) have a negative impact on functional ability and quality of life (QoL), but the impact of diseases that cause peripheral vision loss (PVL) is less well understood. Focusing on glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration (ARMD), the effects of CVL and PVL on QoL were compared. METHODS: A systematic literature review of publications reporting QoL in patients with CVL or PVL identified 87 publications using four generic (Short-Form Health Survey-36 and -12, EuroQoL EQ-5D and Sickness Impact Profile) and five vision-specific (National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-51, -39, and -25, Impact of Vision Impairment and Visual Function-14) QoL instruments; 33 and 15 publications reported QoL in ARMD and glaucoma, respectively. RESULTS: QoL was impaired to a similar extent by diseases associated with PVL and CVL, but different domains were affected. In contrast to ARMD, mental aspects appeared to be affected more than physical aspects in patients with glaucoma. CONCLUSIONS: The differential impact upon QoL might be a function of the pathology of the diseases, for example potential for blindness and better ability to perform physical tasks due to retention of central vision may explain these observations in glaucoma
74	0	There is interest in the use of discrete choice experiments that include a duration attribute (DCETTO) to generate health utility values, but questions remain on its feasibility in large health state descriptive systems. This study examines the stability of DCETTO to estimate health utility values from the five-level EQ-5D, an instrument with depicts 3125 different health states Between January and March 2011, we administered 120 DCETTO tasks based on the five-level EQ-5D to a total of 1799 respondents in the UK (each completed 15 DCETTO tasks on-line). We compared models across different sample sizes and different total numbers of observations. We found the DCETTO coefficients were generally consistent, with high agreement between individual ordinal preferences and aggregate cardinal values. Keeping the DCE design and the total number of observations fixed, subsamples consisting of 10 tasks per respondent with an intermediate sized sample, and 15 tasks with a smaller sample provide similar results in comparison to the whole sample model. In conclusion, we find that the DCETTO is a feasible method for developing values for larger descriptive systems such as EQ-5D-5L, and find evidence supporting important design features for future valuation studies that use the DCETTO
75	0	na
76	1	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the validity of cancer-specific and generic preference-based instruments to discriminate across different measures of cancer severities. METHODS: Patients with breast (n = 66), colorectal (n = 57), and lung (n = 61) cancer completed the EORTC QLQ-C30 and the FACT-G, as well as three generic instruments: the EQ-5D, the SF-6D, and the HUI2/3. Disease severity was quantified using cancer stage, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG-PS) score, and self-reported health status. Comparative analyses confirmed the multi-dimensional conceptualization of the instruments in terms of construct and convergent validity. RESULTS: In general, the instruments were able to discriminate across severity measures. The instruments demonstrated moderate to strong correlation with each other (r = 0.37-0.73). Not all of the measures could discriminate between different groups of disease severity: the EQ-5D and SF-6D were less discriminative than the HUI2/3 and the cancer-specific instruments. CONCLUSION: The cancer-specific and generic preference-based instruments demonstrated to be valid in discriminating across levels of ECOG-PS scores and self-reported health states. However, the usefulness of the generic instruments may be limited if they are not able to detect small changes in health status within cancer patients. This raises concerns regarding the appropriateness of these instruments when comparing different cancer treatments within an economic evaluation framework
77	1	PURPOSE: Aims of this cross-sectional study were to assess health status and care dependency in patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or chronic heart failure (CHF) and to identify correlates of an impaired health status. METHODS: The following outcomes were assessed in outpatients with advanced COPD (n = 105) or CHF (n = 80): clinical characteristics; general health status (EuroQol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D); Assessment of Quality of Life instrument (AQoL); Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36)); disease-specific health status (St. Georges Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ)); physical mobility (timed 'Up and Go' test); and care dependency (Care Dependency Scale). RESULTS: Patients with advanced COPD or CHF have an impaired health status and may be confronted with care dependency. Multiple regression analyses have shown that physical and psychological symptoms, care dependency and number of drugs were correlated with impaired health status in advanced COPD or CHF, while demographic and clinical characteristics like age, gender, disease severity and co-morbidities were not correlated. CONCLUSIONS: Clinical care should regularly assess symptom burden and care dependency to identify patients with advanced COPD or CHF at risk for an impaired health status
78	1	OBJECTIVES: To investigate the association between socioeconomic status and deep brain stimulation (DBS) outcomes in Parkinson's disease (PD). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed a cohort of PD patients who underwent DBS from 2007 to 2011, who had Clinical Global Impression Scale-Improvement subscale (CGI-I) scores at approximately one year postsurgery. We also analyzed a subgroup of patients who had pre and postoperative Movement Disorders Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) Part II (functional subscale) and European Quality of Life Scale (EQ5D) scores. We performed regression analyses to determine the association between their median household income and their improvement in the MDS-UPDRS Part II, EQ-5D, and CGI-I post-DBS surgery. RESULTS: We analyzed 125 PD patients with CGI-I at one year post-DBS, including a subset of 43 patients who had pre- and post-DBS MDS-UPDRS Part II and EQ5D scores at 6 and 12 months Median income was not significantly associated with the one-year CGI-I, the six-month MDS-UPDRS II, and the six-month and one-year EQ5D score. However, after adjusting for preoperative MDS-UPDRS II score, for every $10,000 increase in household median income, there was a 2.15-point improvement on the MDS-UPDRS II score after one year (95% confidence interval = -3.63 to -0.66, p = 0.0060) CONCLUSIONS: PD patients with higher household incomes had better functional improvement at one year. However, this did not necessarily translate to better quality of life or overall clinical improvement when compared with PD patients with lower household incomes. The influence of household income on DBS and other advanced therapies for PD will need further investigation
79	0	BACKGROUND: Stroke is the third leading cause of death in developed countries and the leading cause of long-term disability worldwide. A series of national stroke audits in the UK highlighted the differences in stroke care between hospitals The study aims to describe variation in outcomes following stroke and to identify the characteristics of services that are associated with better outcomes, after accounting for case mix differences and individual prognostic factors METHODS/DESIGN: We will conduct a cohort study in eight acute NHS trusts within East of England, with at least one year of follow-up after stroke. The study population will be a systematically selected representative sample of patients admitted with stroke during the study period, recruited within each hospital. We will collect individual patient data on prognostic characteristics, health care received, outcomes and costs of care and we will also record relevant characteristics of each provider organisation. The determinants of one year outcome including patient reported outcome will be assessed statistically with proportional hazards regression models. Self (or proxy) completed EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaires will measure quality of life at baseline and follow-up for cost utility analyses. DISCUSSION: This study will provide observational data about health service factors associated with variations in patient outcomes and health care costs following hospital admission for acute stroke. This will form the basis for future RCTs by identifying promising health service interventions, assessing the feasibility of recruiting and following up trial patients, and provide evidence about frequency and variances in outcomes, and intra-cluster correlation of outcomes, for sample size calculations. The results will inform clinicians, public, service providers, commissioners and policy makers to drive further improvement in health services which will bring direct benefit to the patients
80	1	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a behavioral intervention for urinary incontinence of prostate cancer patients Study subjects were either participating in or eligible but declined (i.e., nonparticipating) the active intervention study. METHODS: The intervention-participating subjects were randomized into three groups, including two intervention groups (support and telephone groups) and a usual care reference group. Intervention-nonparticipating subjects were concurrently enrolled Intervention effectiveness was assessed on the EQ-5D measure. The costs included direct healthcare cost from medical billing data, patient out-of-pocket expense, caregiver expense, patient loss-of-work cost, and intervention cost. We calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) from societal, provider, and patient perspectives. RESULTS: Two hundred and sixty-seven intervention-participating and 69 intervention-nonparticipating post-cancer treatment patients were included. The support and telephone groups, but not the usual care group, had significantly higher EQ-5D index scores (0.054, p = 0.033, and 0.057, p = 0.026, respectively) than the intervention-nonparticipating group at month 6. Within 6 months, intervention cost per subject was $252 and $484, respectively, for providers, and $564 and $203, respectively, for the support and phone group subjects. The final ICERs were $16,759 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and $12,561/QALY for support and telephone groups, compared with those of the intervention-nonparticipating group. These ICERs are much smaller than $50,000/QALY, the consensus threshold to determine cost-effectiveness for society. CONCLUSIONS: The study interventions are cost-effective in consideration of eligible patients who declined the interventions. The interventions can provide meaningful outcome improvement on urinary continence at a low cost. This evidence provides critical information for future health policy decision-making of healthcare providers and payers
81	1	BACKGROUND: The risk of further intra-articular damage associated with nonoperative or delayed anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction must be considered against the risk of growth disturbance with early reconstruction and transphyseal drilling. Long-term follow-ups after the surgical treatment of ACL injuries in adolescents are rare. PURPOSE: To evaluate results 10 to 20 years after ACL reconstruction in terms of the radiographic presence of osteoarthritis, clinical assessments, and health-related quality of life in patients who were adolescents at the time of surgery. STUDY DESIGN: Case series; Level of evidence, 4. METHODS: Thirty-two adolescents (mean age, 15.2 years [range, 12-16 years]; 11 boys, 21 girls), with a symptomatic unilateral ACL rupture, underwent reconstruction using bone-patellar tendon-bone (n=10) or hamstring tendon (n=22) autografts at an almost skeletally mature age according to Tanner stage 4 Twenty-nine patients (91%) underwent clinical, radiographic, and health-related quality of life assessments after 10 to 20 years (mean, 175 months). RESULTS: The mean time between the injury and index surgery was 11.6 months. The reconstructed knee had significantly more osteoarthritic changes compared with the noninvolved contralateral knee (P=.001). Preoperatively, the median Tegner activity level was 4 (range, 2-8), and the median Lysholm knee score was 75 (range, 50-90) points At follow-up, the respective median values were 4 (range, 1-7) and 84 (range, 34-100) points (P=not significant [preoperatively vs follow-up]). The median finding for the single-legged hop test was 84% (range, 0%-105%) preoperatively and 93% (range, 53%-126%) at follow-up (P=.01). At follow-up, muscle strength measurements displayed more than 90% of the noninvolved leg in both extension and flexion. The manual Lachman test result was significantly improved at follow-up compared with preoperatively (P<.001). The 36-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) revealed scores comparable with those of healthy controls. The mean EuroQol (EQ-5D) score was 0.86±0.12. The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) values were lower in all dimensions compared with age-matched healthy controls. CONCLUSION: In the long term, patients who were adolescents at the time of ACL reconstruction revealed significantly more radiographically visible osteoarthritic changes in their operated knee than in their noninvolved contralateral knee. Clinical outcomes and health-related quality of life are comparable with those of healthy controls
82	0	Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a frequent inflammatory rheumatic disease and prototype of the Spondyloarthitides (SpA). During the last years outcome parameters have been developed to evaluate different aspects of the disease Among these are the Bath AS Disease Activity Index (BASDAI), Bath AS Functional Index (BASFI), Bath AS Metrology Index (BASMI), numeric rating scales for general pain, night pain, patients and physicians global assessment, as well as questionnaires to evaluate quality of life as the short Form (SF)- 36, Euroquol 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D), or the AS specific the ASQuol. These outcome parameters are the basis to conduct clinical trials. The ASessements in AS (ASAS) improvement criteria were developed to evaluate the short term efficacy of Non-Steroidal Antirheumatic Drugs (NSAIDs) and adjusted for the measurement of the high efficacy of the TNF-alpha blocking agents. To examine the x-rays of sacroiliac joints (SIG), the radiological criteria as part of the modified New York criteria are mostly used. For the x-rays of the spine the Bath AS Radiology Index (BASRI) is valuable in daily practice, but the modified Stokes AS Spine Score (mSASSS) is more sensitive for clinical trials. To examine Magnetic Resonance Images (MRI) of SIG and spine also scores are currently developed. Altogether, using the new outcome parameters it was possible to demonstrate the strikingly high efficacy of theTNF-alpha blocking agents. However, it could also be shown that conventional disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are not effective in the treatment of the axial forms of SpA
83	0	BACKGROUND: The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is a recognised outcome measure in health economic evaluations. QALY incorporates individual preferences and identifies health gains by combining mortality and morbidity into one single index number. A literature review was conducted to examine and discuss the use of QALYs to measure outcomes in telehealth evaluations. METHODS: Evaluations were identified via a literature search in all relevant databases. Only economic evaluations measuring both costs and QALYs using primary patient level data of two or more alternatives were included. RESULTS: A total of 17 economic evaluations estimating QALYs were identified. All evaluations used validated generic health related-quality of life (HRQoL) instruments to describe health states. They used accepted methods for transforming the quality scores into utility values. The methodology used varied between the evaluations. The evaluations used four different preference measures (EQ-5D, SF-6D, QWB and HUI3), and utility scores were elicited from the general population. Most studies reported the methodology used in calculating QALYs. The evaluations were less transparent in reporting utility weights at different time points and variability around utilities and QALYs. Few made adjustments for differences in baseline utilities. The QALYs gained in the reviewed evaluations varied from 0.001 to 0.118 in implying a small but positive effect of telehealth intervention on patient's health. The evaluations reported mixed cost-effectiveness results CONCLUSION: The use of QALYs in telehealth evaluations has increased over the last few years. Different methodologies and utility measures have been used to calculate QALYs. A more harmonised methodology and utility measure is needed to ensure comparability across telehealth evaluations
84	1	AIMS: The aim of the study was to examine how the combination of medication and a brief cognitive behavioral intervention for alcohol dependency can affect patients' quality of life (QL), symptoms of depression and smoking habits METHODS: We conducted a randomized, open-label, multicenter naturalistic study for 243 voluntary-treatment-seeking alcohol-dependent adult outpatients in two phases: first, 12 weeks with continuous medication followed by targeted medication for up to 52 weeks, and second, a follow-up period of 67 weeks (altogether 2.5 years). The subjects were randomized 1:1:1 to receive supervised naltrexone, acamprosate or disulfiram, plus a brief manual-based cognitive behavioral intervention (CBT). RESULTS: All three study groups showed a significant reduction in drinking from baseline to the end of the study. In the QL test EQ-5D, patients exhibited significant positive changes in sleeping, action, pain and mood dimensions. Severity of depression decreased during the whole study. Smoking decreased more in the disulfiram group than in the naltrexone and acamprosate groups. CONCLUSION: A combination of medical treatment (naltrexone, acamprosate or disulfiram) with the CBT-booklet (patient guide) appears to help reduce patients' symptoms of depression and improve their QL Treatment is also associated with success at quitting smoking, especially among patients using disulfiram
85	0	BACKGROUND: Non-compliance with medication often has long-term detrimental effects in patients with schizophrenia. However, when patients are compliant, it is not certain whether they experience short-term improved quality of life. By simultaneously reducing symptoms and increasing side-effects, compliance with antipsychotics may have opposing effects on a patient's perceived quality of life. AIM: This study aimed to identify any clinical-empirical evidence for two pathways between compliance and quality of life. METHOD: To evaluate various pathways between compliance (Service Engagement Scale plus a one-item rating), psychotic symptoms (Positive and Negative Syndromes Scale), adverse medication effects (Subjective Wellbeing under Neuroleptics scale), and quality of life (EQ-5D), we used Structural Equation Modeling on cross-sectional data of 114 patients with a psychotic disorder. RESULTS: Compliance was not directly related to quality of life (r=0.004). The best-fitting model (chi(2)=1.08; df=1) indicated that high compliance was associated with fewer psychotic symptoms (beta=-0.23) and more adverse medication effects (beta=0.22). Symptoms (beta=-0.17) and adverse medication effects (beta=-0.48) were both related to lower quality of life. DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that compliance with antipsychotics has two opposing pathways towards quality of life, albeit indirect ones. While compliance was associated with less severe psychotic symptoms, and was thus related to higher quality of life, it was also associated with more adverse medication effects, and was thus related to lower quality of life However, due to our study design, we cannot draw firm conclusions on causality Two possible clinical implications of the results for compliance and interventions are discussed
86	1	PURPOSE: The SWISSspine registry (SSR) was launched in 2005 to assess the safety and effectiveness of balloon kyphoplasty (BKP). In the meantime, repeated reports on high rates of adjacent vertebral fractures (ASF) after BKP of vertebral insufficiency fractures were published. The causes for ASF and their risk factors are still under debate. The purpose of this study was to report the incidence and potential risk factors of ASF within the SSR dataset. METHODS: The SSR data points are collected perioperatively and during follow-ups, with surgeon- and patient-based information. All patients documented with a monosegmental osteoporotic vertebral insufficiency fracture between March 2005 and May 2012 were included in the study. The incidence of ASF, significant associations with co-variates (patient age, gender, fracture location, cement volume, preoperative segmental kyphosis, extent of kyphosis correction, and individual co-morbidities) and influence on quality of life (EQ-5D) and back pain (VAS) were analyzed RESULTS: A total of 375 patients with a mean follow-up of 3.6 months was included. ASF were found in 9.9 % (n = 37) and occurred on average 2.8 months postoperatively. Preoperative segmental kyphosis >30° (p = 0.026), and rheumatoid arthritis (p = 0.038) and cardiovascular disease (p = 0.047) were significantly associated with ASF. Furthermore, patients with ASF had significantly higher back pain at the final follow-up (p = 0.001). No further significant associations between the studied co-variates and ASF were seen in the adjusted analysis CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that patients with a preoperative segmental kyphosis >30° or patients with co-morbidities like rheumatoid arthritis and a cardiovascular disease are at high risk of ASF within 6 months after the index surgery. In case of an ASF event, back pain levels are significantly increased LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV
87	0	INTRODUCTION: Owing to increasing numbers of decompressive craniectomies in patients with malignant middle cerebral artery infarction, cranioplastic surgery becomes more relevant. However, the current literature mainly consists of retrospective single-centre (evidence class III) studies. This leads to a wide variability of technical approaches and clinical outcomes. To improve our knowledge about the key elements of cranioplasty, which may help optimising clinical treatment and long-term outcome, a prospective multicentre registry across Germany, Austria and Switzerland will be established. METHODS: All patients undergoing cranioplastic surgery in participating centres will be invited to join the registry. Technical methods, materials, medical history, adverse events and clinical outcome measures, including modified Rankin scale and EQ-5D, will be assessed at several time points. Patients will be accessible to inclusion either at initial decompressive surgery or when cranioplasty is planned. Scheduled monitoring will be carried out at time of inclusion and subsequently at time of discharge, if any readmission is necessary, and at follow-up presentation. Cosmetic results and patient satisfaction will also be assessed. Collected data will be managed and statistically analysed by an independent biometric institute. The primary endpoint will be mortality, need for operative revision and neurological status at 3 months following cranioplasty ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval was obtained at all participating centres. The registry will provide reliable prospective evidence on surgical techniques, used materials, adverse events and functional outcome, to optimise patient treatment. We expect this study to give new insights in the treatment of skull defects and to provide a basis for future evidence-based therapy regarding cranioplastic surgery. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: This trial is indexed in the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS-ID: DRKS00007931). The Universal Trial Number (UTN) is U1111-1168-7425
88	1	PURPOSE: Our aim was to study the course of vasospastic and sensorineural symptoms after the clinical diagnosis of hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS), and the association of current HAVS symptoms with occupational status, self-evaluation of health, quality of life, and work ability. METHODS: We gathered all HAVS cases diagnosed at the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health in Helsinki and Tampere during 1990-2008. A questionnaire was sent to all these patients (n = 241). Altogether 149 of them (62 %) returned the questionnaire Cumulative lifelong vibration exposure was evaluated on the basis of the data in the patient files. RESULTS: On average, 8.5 years after the diagnosis of HAVS, approximately one-third of the patients reported improvement in symptoms of vibration-induced white finger (VWF) and the sensorineural symptoms. Young age and shorter exposure time were associated with improvement in VWF symptoms (p = 0.033 and p < 0.001, respectively). Persistent or deteriorated symptoms of both VWF and sensorineural symptoms were associated with lowered work ability, quality of life (EQ-5D), and general health, also after adjusting for age, smoking, and diseases other than HAVS. The patients' own prediction of work ability in 2 years was more negative if the VWF symptoms or sensorineural symptoms had continued after diagnosis of HAVS (p = 0.065 and p = 0.001, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that in about two-thirds of the patients, the HAVS symptoms may stabilize or deteriorate in the follow-up. Considering the effects on work ability, timely prevention measures should be taken more actively to help patients continue their working careers
89	1	BACKGROUND: The anti-TNF inhibitor, etanercept is administered as a once or twice weekly subcutaneous injection for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). Limited data from the patients' perspective are available on the use of biologics in the treatment of these chronic conditions and this evaluation was designed to collect data from patients who had been prescribed etanercept for the first time. This manuscript describes the self-reported baseline characteristics and health-related quality of life of patients prior to treatment. Follow-up data will be reported separately. METHODS: Patients throughout the United Kingdom prescribed etanercept were invited to participate in an evaluation of their condition and treatment using a data collection tool consisting of a web-based system supplemented by telephone reporting (PROBE) Outcome measures reported at baseline included demographic data, the condition being treated, previous treatment with biologic agents and current and previous medications. Questions modified from standard, validated quality of life questionnaires such as EQ-5D were incorporated and patients made a global assessment of the severity of their own illness using the CGI-S scale. RESULTS: A total of 344 patients/carers/parents participated in the evaluation at baseline, 290 (84%) by online questionnaire and 54 (16%) by telephone. Overall, the study population had a mean age of 53 years, was predominantly female (62%) and 20% had been previously treated with a biologic agent. A total of 191 (56%) patients were receiving treatment with etanercept for rheumatoid arthritis, 44 (13%) for psoriatic arthritis, 43 (13%) for ankylosing spondylitis, 35 (10%) for psoriasis, 9 (3%) for known juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and 22 (6%) for another condition/patient unsure/missing response. All patients were prescribed the 50 mg weekly dose of etanercept except for 1 patient with JIA (40 mg) dose and 2 patients with psoriasis (100 mg). Thirty-eight percent of patients with rheumatoid arthritis were not receiving treatment with methotrexate. CONCLUSIONS: The baseline characteristics and health-related quality of life of first time users of etanercept can be adequately described using self-reported patient data collected using an online questionnaire with a telephone option (PROBE)
90	0	BACKGROUND: Depressive disorder is currently one of the most burdensome disorders worldwide. Evidence-based treatments for depressive disorder are already available, but these are used insufficiently, and with less positive results than possible. Earlier research in the USA has shown good results in the treatment of depressive disorder based on a collaborative care approach with Problem Solving Treatment and an antidepressant treatment algorithm, and research in the UK has also shown good results with Problem Solving Treatment. These treatment strategies may also work very well in the Netherlands too, even though health care systems differ between countries. METHODS/DESIGN: This study is a two-armed randomised clinical trial, with randomization on patient-level. The aim of the trial is to evaluate the treatment of depressive disorder in primary care in the Netherlands by means of an adapted collaborative care framework, including contracting and adherence-improving strategies, combined with Problem Solving Treatment and antidepressant medication according to a treatment algorithm. Forty general practices will be randomised to either the intervention group or the control group. Included will be patients who are diagnosed with moderate to severe depression, based on DSM-IV criteria, and stratified according to comorbid chronic physical illness. Patients in the intervention group will receive treatment based on the collaborative care approach, and patients in the control group will receive care as usual. Baseline measurements and follow up measures (3, 6, 9 and 12 months) are assessed using questionnaires and an interview. The primary outcome measure is severity of depressive symptoms, according to the PHQ9. Secondary outcome measures are remission as measured with the PHQ9 and the IDS-SR, and cost-effectiveness measured with the TiC-P, the EQ-5D and the SF-36 DISCUSSION: In this study, an American model to enhance care for patients with a depressive disorder, the collaborative care model, will be evaluated for effectiveness in the primary care setting. If effective across the Atlantic and across different health care systems, it is also likely to be an effective strategy to implement in the treatment of major depressive disorder in the Netherlands
91	0	INTRODUCTION: Patients who sustain open lower limb fractures have reported infection risks as high as 27%. The type of dressing applied after initial debridement could potentially affect this risk. In this trial, standard dressings will be compared with a new emerging treatment, negative pressure wound therapy, for patients with open lower limb fractures. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: All adult patients presenting with an open lower limb fracture, with a Gustilo and Anderson (G&A) grade 2/3, will be considered for inclusion. 460 consented patients will provide 90% power to detect a difference of eight points in the Disability Rating Index (DRI) score at 12 months, at the 5% level. A randomisation sequence, stratified by trial centre and G&A grade, will be produced and administered by a secure web-based service. A qualitative substudy will assess patients' experience of giving consent for the trial, and acceptability of trial procedures to patients and staff. Patients will have clinical follow-up in a fracture clinic up to a minimum of 12 months as per standard National Health Service (NHS) practice Functional and quality of life outcome data will be collected using the DRI, SF12 and EQ-5D questionnaires at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months postoperatively. In addition, information will be requested with regards to resource use and any late complications or surgical interventions related to their injury. The main analysis will investigate differences in the DRI score at 1 year after injury, between the two treatment groups on an intention-to-treat basis. Tests will be two sided and considered to provide evidence for a significant difference if p values are less than 0.05. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was given by NRES Committee West Midlands-Coventry & Warwickshire on 6/2/2012 (ref: 12/WM/0001). The results of the trial will be disseminated via peer-reviewed publications and presentations at relevant conferences. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN33756652
92	1	The objective of the study was to evaluate the reliability, validity and responsiveness of two generic multiattribute methods for measuring utility for health states: a 15-dimensional (15D) and a five-dimensional method (EuroQol and EQ-TTO). A self-administered questionnaire with both measures was used in 59 outpatients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and the findings compared with standard gamble (SG) and time trade-off (TTO) utilities, spirometry and arterial blood gases. Quality of life scores were smallest for EQ-TTO (median 0.73) and highest for SG and TTO (median 0.91 and 0.95 respectively), while 15D gave intermediate values (median 0.80). The test-retest reliability over 14 days was: 15D (p = 0.90) and EQ-TTO (p = 0.73), using Spearman's rank correlation. 15D was better than EQ-TTO at discriminating between groups of patients after reported global rating of change over 12 months (P = 0.004 versus P = 0.09), indicating that 15D was more responsive. The 15D instrument has many attractive properties when compared to the EQ-TTO method, including a better reliability and responsiveness. Validity depends on validation method. The findings in this study indicate that the different utility measures measure different aspects of health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Caution should be taken when choosing utility instruments in cost-utility studies, as this can strongly influence the results
93	1	"PURPOSE: The United States faces a growing population of older adults and accompanying functional disabilities, coupled with constrained public resources and diminishing informal supports. A variety of interventions that aim to improve client outcomes have been studied, but to date, there is limited translational research that examines the efficacy of moving such interventions from clinical trials to agency settings. METHODS: A randomized controlled trial was conducted to evaluate a restorative occupational therapy intervention relative to ""usual care"" among community-dwelling older adults. The intervention included a detailed assessment from a person-environment perspective and provision of adaptive equipment and home modifications where appropriate. The intervention (n = 31) and control groups (n = 29) were evaluated at 3 months and assessed for changes in functional status, home safety, falls, health-related quality of life (HRQoL; EQ5D), depression, social support, and fear of falling; a 4 subgroup analysis also examined outcomes by waiting list status. An informal economic evaluation compared the intervention to usual care. RESULTS: Findings indicated improvements in home safety (p < .0005, b = -15.87), HRQoL (p = .03, b = 0.08), and fear of falling (p < .05, b = 2.22). Findings did not show improvement in functional status or reduction in actual falls. The intervention resulted in a 39% reduction in recommended hours of personal care, which if implemented, could result in significant cost savings. IMPLICATIONS: The study adds to the growing literature of occupational therapy interventions for older adults, and the findings support the concept that restorative approaches can be successfully implemented in public agencies"
94	1	BACKGROUND: Etanercept is well tolerated and effective in moderate to severe psoriasis; however, data on patient-reported outcomes (PROs) in Canadian patients remain limited. OBJECTIVE: To assess PROs in Canadian patients with moderate to severe psoriasis receiving etanercept in an open-label trial more representative of general clinical practice than traditional research studies. METHODS: This 1-year, multicenter, single-arm study enrolled 246 patients. Patients received etanercept 50 mg subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 months and then 50 mg once weekly for 9 months. Primary and safety end points were reported previously Change from baseline to month 12 for the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), EuroQoL-5D, and Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM) are secondary outcomes reported here. Post hoc analyses of PROs are also reported RESULTS: Mean ± standard deviation (SD) DLQI total score improved from 13.7 ± 6.1 at baseline to 3.9 ± 5.6 at month 12. By month 12, 75% of patients achieved a clinically meaningful improvement in the DLQI (≥ 5-point improvement or a score of 0). Fifty-three to 86% of patients reported improvement or complete improvement in the six DLQI subscales. The mean ± SD EuroQoL-5D total score improved from baseline (0.67 ± 0.25) to month 12 (0.83 ± 0.25). The TSQM scores showed improvement in global satisfaction, effectiveness, and convenience after 3 months. CONCLUSIONS: Etanercept was associated with improved PROs and increased treatment satisfaction over 1 year
95	0	Osteoporosis is a disease causing higher bone fragility and bone ruptures occurring even in minimal traumas. Good patient compliance is the prerequisite for long-term efficacy of osteoporosis treatment. Compliance data from randomised clinical studies may not provide reliable information about compliance in clinical practice which is usually lower. CORAL (COmpliance with RALoxifene therapy) is a local, Slovak, non-interventional, open, prospective, uncontrolled and multicentre study of woman patients on raloxifen therapy in current clinical practice. Raloxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) indicated for the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis. OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of the study was to assess compliance with raloxifen therapy in the conditions of current clinical practice. The secondary objectives were the assessment of the impact of therapy on the quality of life, of treatment satisfaction and treatment safety. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 1497 patients with proven postmenopausal osteoporosis were enrolled in the 18-month study performed in 40 centres. Compliance was evaluated on the basis of the number of omissions in the use of the evaluated drug. Treatment satisfaction was evaluated by the patients who used a 0-100 visual analogue scale (VAS). Quality of life was evaluated by means of an EQ-5D quality of life questionnaire. In order to measure treatment safety, all adverse events were recorded by the supervising physician in a dedicated questionnaire at every visit. Statistical methods used: The non-parametrical Mann-Whitney test was used to assess the relation between raloxifen treatment compliance and the selected parametres (quality of life, treatment satisfaction, changes in health condition, premature discontinuation of therapy). The maximum likelihood ratio chi2 test and Fisher's exact test (for 2 x 2 tables) were used to analyse the ratio between compliance and reasons for enrolment in the study. Changes in treatment satisfaction in the course of the study were analysed using the Wilcoxon test. All the used tests were bilateral and data was assessed at a 5 % level of significance. RESULTS: The mean age of the patients enrolled in the study was 63.4 +/- 8.0 years. 58 % of patients were enrolled on the basis ofdensitometric evidence of osteoporosis, 74% of patients were enrolled for proven osteoporosis which had been manifested by a fracture, and osteoporotic fracture as such was the reason to start therapy in 10 % of patients. The majority of patients enrolled in the study (77%) had natural menopause. The mean period from menopause to the study was 15 years. Acceptable cooperation (> or =80% of medication used) was recorded for more than 90% of patients during the study, and total dosing adherence was recorded more than 58 % of patients. A significantly higher satisfaction with pharmacotherapy was observed in the patients who adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule. Adherence to the prescribed dosing schedule was also associated with a considerable better health condition and a higher quality of life. In a total of 1,497 evaluated patients, treatment was prematurely discontinued in 87 (5.8 %) women. The attending physician's decision, adverse events or the patient's request were relatively evenly distributed among the reasons for the discontinuation of therapy. Premature discontinuation of therapy was mostly recorded in patients who were not satisfied with the pharmacotherapy of osteoporosis as such, in women who were less satisfied with their overall health condition and who had a lower quality of life. DISCUSSION: The study showed very good patient compliance with raloxifen. The above findings associate with a significant correlation between the degree of adherence to therapy, treatment satisfaction and the overall health condition and quality of life. Premature discontinuation of therapy was observed in a very low number of women. It can be concluded that raloxifen therapy provides effective treatment of osteoporosis based on long-term cooperation of patients. CONCLUSION: Effective treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis with raloxifen is related to excellent cooperation of patients on a long-term basis
96	1	The impact of apathy on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in recently diagnosed Parkinson's disease (PD) has not been systematically investigated. The objective of this cross-sectional survey (ANIMO study) was to examine the contribution of apathy to HRQOL in a Spanish sample of recently diagnosed PD patients. PD patients, diagnosed within 2 years of inclusion, were recruited at 102 outpatient clinics in 82 communities throughout Spain. Apathy was quantified using the Lille Apathy Rating Scale and HRQOL with the EuroQol-5D questionnaire A mean EuroQol-5D index score of 0.89 obtained from population references in Spain was used as the cutoff for this study. The relationship between apathy and the dichotomized EuroQol-5D index score (<0.89 [lower HRQOL] vs ≥0.89 [reference]) was examined using multiple logistic regression analysis, adjusting for sociodemographic and clinical variables. We consecutively recruited 557 patients (60.3% men) with a mean age of 68.8 ± 9.7 years. Apathy was diagnosed in 291 (52.2%) and was related to problems in each of the EuroQoL dimensions Apathetic PD patients showed EuroQol-5D index scores significantly lower than those without apathy (0.64 vs 0.83). In an adjusted model, apathetic PD patients were 2.49 times more likely to have lower HRQOL than nonapathetic patients (odds ratio, 2.49; 95% confidence interval, 1.49-4.15, P < 0.01). Apathy is very common in those with recently diagnosed PD and is one of the major clinical determinants of HRQOL in this disease. It should be one of the primary concerns among clinicians who provide treatment to individuals affected by PD
97	0	OBJECTIVE: To explore the potential value of obtaining momentary, instead of retrospective, accounts of the description and valuation of a person's own health-related quality of life (HRQOL). METHODS: Momentary HRQOL was examined with the experience sampling method (ESM) in 139 participants from four different samples. The ESM consists of a so-called beep questionnaire that was administered 10 times a day by an electronic device. Feasibility was determined by assessing willingness to participate in the study and by analyzing the percentage of dropouts and the number of completed beep questionnaires. Multilevel analysis was used to investigate the relation between momentary HRQOL and momentary feelings and symptoms. The relation between momentary outcomes and the EuroQol visual analogue scale was investigated with a multiple regression model. RESULTS: The overall participation rate was low, but there were no dropouts and the number of completed beeps was comparable to that in other studies. Multilevel analysis showed that feelings and symptoms were significant predictors of momentary HRQOL The strength of these relations differed among three patient groups and a population-based sample. The EuroQol visual analogue scale was not predicted by momentary feelings and symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: We can conclude that the use of the ESM to measure accounts of the momentary experience of health in different populations is feasible. Retrospective measures may provide a biased account of the impact of health problems in the daily lives of people who are affected Moreover, the bias may be different in different conditions
98	0	BACKGROUND: Surgery for type II SLAP (superior labral anterior posterior) lesions of the shoulder is a promising but unproven treatment. The procedures include labral repair or biceps tenodesis. Retrospective cohort studies have suggested that the benefits of tenodesis include pain relief and improved function, and higher patient satisfaction, which was reported in a prospective non-randomised study. There have been no completed randomised controlled trials of surgery for type II SLAP lesions. The aims of this participant and observer blinded randomised placebo-controlled trial are to compare the short-term (6 months) and long-term (2 years) efficacy of labral repair, biceps tenodesis, and placebo (diagnostic arthroscopy) for alleviating pain and improving function for type II SLAP lesions. METHODS/DESIGN: A double-blind randomised controlled trial are performed using 120 patients, aged 18 to 60 years, with a history for type II SLAP lesions and clinical signs suggesting type II SLAP lesion, which were documented by MR arthrography and arthroscopy. Exclusion criteria include patients who have previously undergone operations for SLAP lesions or recurrent shoulder dislocations, and ruptures of the rotator cuff or biceps tendon Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, three, six, 12, and 24 months. Primary outcome measures will be the clinical Rowe Score (1988-version) and the Western Ontario Instability Index (WOSI) at six and 24 months. Secondary outcome measures will include the Shoulder Instability Questionnaire (SIQ), the generic EuroQol (EQ-5 D and EQ-VAS), return to work and previous sports activity, complications, and the number of reoperations. DISCUSSION: The results of this trial will be of international importance and the results will be translatable into clinical practice. TRIAL REGISTRATION: [ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00586742]
99	0	OBJECTIVES: To establish a conceptual model that links arthritis, functional disability in activities of daily living, and quality of life (QoL). METHODS: A multicentre, cross-sectional, observation study was performed. The location of the arthritis (presence/absence) was recorded. Disability was measured using the Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index and the QoL determined using the EQ-5D-3 Level questionnaire. The relationship between the arthritis, disability, and the QoL was evaluated using the structural equation model (SEM). PATIENTS: 965 patients with arthritis (mean age=64 years, with 75% females). Arthritis: mean areas affected: 2.8. Areas most frequently affected: knees (67%); lumbar spine (60%) and cervical spine (45%). QoL: The majority of patients did not mention serious problems in the five domains assessed. Disability: «other activities» (mean=1.2); «reach» (mean=1.1) and «walking» (mean=1.0) were the categories that demonstrated greater disability. The SEM showed arthritis, disability and QoL as associated latent variables. Although 92% of the QoL explained the disability, only 5% of the disability was due to the presence/absence of arthritis. The global model that describes arthritis as a cause of disability, and disability was affecting the QoL, had a reasonable goodness of fit (CMIN/DF=5.42; RMR=0.026; RMSEA=0.069). CONCLUSIONS: Functional disability can explain the decrease in QoL. In theory, arthritis is closely related with disability and QoL, but the model did not mange to fully explain this link. As statistical techniques required good measurement models to correctly determine relationships, conventional medical records seem to be insufficient for this purpose. Other valid measurements of arthritis are needed to provide tests of its direct effect on disability and QoL
